Admission Date :
2015-09-14
Discharge Date :
2015-09-19
Service :
NEONATOLOGY
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
The patient is a 3285 gm infant born at 37 5/7 weeks to a 21 year old G3 P1 now 2 mother with prenatal screens as follows :
O positive , antibody negative , hepatitis B surface antigen negative , RPR nonreactive , GBS negative .
Unremarkable pregnancy except for minor fullness of the left renal pelvis reported during the week prior to delivery .
Past OB history remarkable for postpartum depression .
Mother was admitted in labor .
Baby was delivered by repeat C-section with rupture of membranes at delivery .
Apgars were 8 and 9 .
CMED CSRU staff was called about 30 minutes of age for grunting , flaring and retractions and the baby was admitted to the CMED CSRU .
HOSPITAL COURSE:
1. Respiratory .
The Athol Memorial Hospital hospital course was initially consistent with transient tachypnea of the newborn .
Chest x-ray revealed mild streakiness of the lung fields .
He was initially placed on nasal cannula with subsequent resolution of respiratory distress .
Nasal cannula was weaned off on day of life 3 and he initially was maintaining O2 sat above 94% and breathing comfortably .
He was subsequently placed back on nasal cannula for mild oxygen desaturation and was requiring 25 c/min flow at the time of discharge .
No apneic or brady episodes .
2. Cardiovascular .
The patient 's cardiovascular status has been stable throughout his CMED CSRU stay .
No murmur on exam .
3. FEN .
The patient had been tolerating oral feeding as of day of life 2 and is currently taking Enfamil 20 p.o. ad lib .
He has been weaned off IV fluids and has been maintaining good blood glucose .
His birth weight was 3285 gm .
His weight is 3015 gm on day of life 5 .
4. GI .
The patient 's bilirubin level at 24 hours of life was 4.6.
No phototherapy was started .
5. ID .
The patient was not started on antibiotics , given lack of sepsis risk factors .
His initial CBC showed no left shift .
Blood culture had remained no growth to date .
6. Heme .
The patient 's initial hematocrit was 35.8 .
No transfusion during this admission .
CONDITION ON TRANSFER :
The patient has been doing well on low flow nasal cannula. He has been tolerating p.o. ad lib feeds .
