Admission Date :
2012-11-21
Discharge Date :
2012-11-28
Service :
Transplant
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
This is a 37-year-old female who presents on an elective basis for a living-related kidney transplant .
The patient has a history of end-stage renal failure secondary to type 1 diabetes with a baseline creatinine of around 5 .
She is receiving a kidney from her sister .
The patient has a history of hypertension , coronary artery disease , and insulin-dependent diabetes for 32 years .
She is status post myocardial infarction in April of this year and subsequently underwent coronary artery bypass surgery .
She present electively on the morning of her surgery with no recent changes in her medical problems .
HOSPITAL COURSE :
The patient was admitted to the preoperative holding area and taken electively to the operating room .
She underwent a living-related renal transplant in the right iliac fossa .
The operation was somewhat technically difficult secondary to a short segment of ureter which was anastomosed over a stent to the bladder .
Otherwise , there were difficulties , and estimated blood loss was minimal .
She was taken postoperatively to the recovery room already making a large amount of urine .
Intraoperatively , for immunosuppression she received thymoglobulin and Solu-Medrol .
She was started on Prograf and CellCept in the postoperative period .
She was also maintained on Bactrim postoperatively and did not require ganciclovir , as she and her sister were cytomegalovirus negative .
The patient 's initial postoperative course was relatively uneventful .
Her creatinine , which was 5 initially postoperatively , slowly dropped over the next few days until eventually reaching a low of 1 .
She did receive pamidronate on postoperative day one and received a total of four doses thymoglobulin .
Her steroid doses were slowly tapered over her hospital course , and her Prograf level was adjusted to maintain therapeutic values between 10 and 15 .
She continued to make good urine over the first few days and had her urine losses replaced with intravenous fluids .
On postoperative day three , the patient had an episode of shortness of breath that was evaluated by both the Renal and surgical residents .
It was found that she was in acute pulmonary edema and required transfer to the Surgical Intensive Care Unit .
Her blood pressure at the time of this incident was in the range of 200/120 .
Her electrocardiogram showed no specific ST changes , but there was some loss of her R wave progression laterally .
Serial enzymes were drawn , and Cardiology was consulted .
With blood pressure control via a nitroglycerin drip and fluid restriction , the patient quickly improved and a had a relatively short stay in the Intensive Care Unit .
Throughout this time , her creatinine continued to drop , and there was no apparent deleterious effect on her transplant from this episode .
Her beta blocker was progressively increased , and her nitroglycerin drip was weaned down .
Two days after this event , she underwent an echocardiogram which was significant for slightly depressed left ventricular systolic function with severe posterior wall hypokinesis .
This was a change from her prior echocardiogram and demonstrated evidence of a small myocardial infarction .
Clinically , she did much better and her blood pressure was optimized prior to discharge .
She was transferred out of the Intensive Care Unit on postoperative day five and was stable on the floor for the next two days .
