Admission Date :
2018-12-04
Discharge Date :
2018-12-12
Service :
OBSTETRICS/GYNECOLOGY
History of Present Illness :
34 yo G3P3 with pelvic organ prolapse after her second delivery; after her third delivery it became much worse .
She feels like_ everything is falling out. 
She urinates frequently , but occasionally the urine is very slow to start .
She is unable to run without losing urine .
The prolapse is especailly large and uncomfotable when she tries to move her bowels and it is easier for her to do sowhile standing rather than sitting .
She has deep pain in intercourse .
Brief Hospital Course :
The patient was taken to the operating room on 2018-12-04 for TVH , sacrospinous fixation , SPARC , anterior and posterior repair with mesh , cystoscopy; for pelvic organ prolapse .
There were no intraoperative complications and the surgical field was hemostatic at the conclusion of the case ( see operative report for full description ) .
The patient tolerated the procedure well and was stable in the PACU and admitted to the CMED CCU floor for routine care .
At 1645 12-04 , the patient was noted to be hypotensive to 70/40
HR 84 with symptoms of lightheadedness while lying supine .
There was no active bleeding noted at the surgical site on examination .
A STAT HCT drawn at this time was 31.2 .
The patient was re-evalutated at 2000 and was found to be tacchycardic to 115 with BP 104/50 using a manual cuff .
Urine output during the prior two hours had been 50cc and 24cc .
A STAT HCT drawn at this time was 19.5 .
The clinical picture was concerning for a post-operative hematoma .
The ICU was alerted to the patient 's disposition and the operating room was activated for urgent re-exploration .
The patient was taken to the OR on POD#0 for re-exploration with incision at 2243 .
Exploratory laparotomy revealed hemoperitonium and approximately 1 L of blood was evacuated .
There was approximately 500cc of retroperitoneal clot .
Despite laparotomy and re-exploration through the vaginal cuff , no source for the bleeding could be found .
At the conclusion of the case , the patient continued to bleed , allbeit at a less brisk pace .
The endotracheal tube was left in place .
Intraoperatively , the patient recieved 5u PRBC .
IR was consulted to identify the bleeding vessel with angiography , then perform embolization .
Tagged cell and angiographic studies performed immediately after re-exploration on 12-05 did not indetify active bleeding and no emobolization was indicated .
THe patient was stable and remained intubated .
The patient was admitted to the ICU for further care .
The patient 's ICU course was uneventful .
There was no evidence of continued bleeding and her HCT remained stable around 30 .
The pt self-extubated on POD #1 .
The patient developed a low grade fever to 100.1 on POD#1 which persisted to POD#2 and imperic treatment with gent/clinda was started .
The patient was stable for transfer to the CMED floor on POD#3 .
Antibiotics were discontinued on POD#8 and pt remained afebrile thereafter .
On POD#9 , the patient was afebrile , tolerating a regular diet , ambultating without difficulty and voiding spontaneously .
She was discharged home with follow-up in two weeks .
