ADMISSION DATE :
01/01/98
DISCHARGE DATE :
01/07/98
DISCHARGE DATE :
01/07/98
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
Mr. Gach is an 80 year old man with aprevious history of coronary artery disease who was transferred from Linghs County Medical Center to Oaksgekesser/ Memorial Hospital because of an apparent infected wound , including the PICC line in his right elbow and positive blood cultures for Staph. aureus associated with fever .
He has a history of myocardial infarctions in 1981 , 1992 and 08/97 with thelast episode complicated by anoxic encephalopathy .
He gradually improved but had recurrent angina requiring cardiac catheterization , demonstrating 90% left main , 95% ostial LAD and 30 to 40% mid-LAD with an occluded RCA .
CABG surgery with two vessel bypass was done on 11/18/97 .
He was then transferred to Linghs County Medical Center .
A PICC line was placed in his left antecubital fossa and on the day of New Years Eve he developed a fever of 102 and became lethargic .
The PICC line site was erythematous .
Blood cultures grew out 4 out of 4 bottles for gram positive cocci , which thereafter proved to be Staph. aureus Methicillin sensitive .
He had no chest pain , shortness of breath or diarrhea .
HOSPITAL COURSE AND TREATMENT :
The patient was treated with intravenous antibiotics .
A lumbar puncture was obtained which showed normal pressure and no cells .
The CSF culture was negative .
A stool assay was taken for Clostridium difficile which was negative .
The patient gradually improved on the current therapy and was quite awake and alert , though still appeared to have some evidence of dementia and disorientation .
He was encouraged to eat and it was decided not to place either a feeding tube or to start TPN .
Dr. Rhalttland was called at Sondi Memorial to update him on the patient &apos;s condition .
He still needs much intensive rehabilitation , encouragement to eat and encouragement to get out of bed to use the bathroom rather than abed pain or a diaper .
He is being transferred to Linghs County Medical Center for further care .
CONDITION :
Stable and improved .
LAKO C. WARM , M.D. STAT
TR :
lv
DD :
01/06/98
TD :
01/06/98 7:41
Pcc :
LAKO C WARM , M.D.
