ADMISSION DATE :
03/30/1999
DISCHARGE DATE :
09/16/2006
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
This is a 76 year old white male with severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease who has had several recent admissions to Oaksgekesser/ Memorial Hospital for respiratory insuffiencey most often secondary to pneumonia .
He was most recently discharged from Oaksgekesser/ Memorial Hospital on 03/06/99 and was then transferred to Linghs County Medical Center from which he was discharged on 03/20/99 .
The patient was doing relatively at home until one day prior to admission he complained discomfort over a suprapubic catheter area .
The patient had missed his usual monthly change of his suprapubic catheter and felt discomfort and noticed some blood at the site of the catheter .
The patient was brought to the Emergency Room one day prior to admission where he was evaluated by Urology and had his catheter changed .
The patient at that time noted slight shortness of breath but was sent home anyway .
On the day of admission the patient noticed increasing shortness of breath .
The patient was noted to be confused and to be disoriented toward the end of the day after complaining of shortness of breath for most of the day .
The patient denies any recent upper respiratory infections , no fevers , no chills , no change in cough , sputum .
He also denies any chest pain .
No orthopnea .
No paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea .
The patient had been taking his usual medications and using his nasal oxygen at home .
By the time the patient arrived at the Oaksgekesser/ Memorial Hospital Emergency Room he was in moderate respiratory distress .
His initial blood gases on 40% 02 was P02 102 , PC02 115 , PH 7.11 .
The patient was given respiratory therapy in the way of nebulizer treatments in the Oaksgekesser/ Memorial Hospital Emergency Room because of a longstanding desire by patient and family to refrain from intubation to be considered Do Not Resuscitate .
The patient was not intubated .
However he was transferred to the Medical Intensive Care Unit where he received continuous respiratory therapy in theway of Albuterol nebulizers as well as nasal oxygen , intravenous steroids and intravenous antibiotics .
A chest x-ray in the Oaksgekesser/ Memorial Hospital Emergency Room showed new changes on his chest x-ray on top of his usual severe bilateral emphysema_____ with scarring in both lungs .
There were new air space opacifications in the left apex and the right lower lobe .
These were thought to be consistent either with pneumonia or asymmetric pulmonary edema .
HOSPITAL COURSE :
The patient was stabilized in the Medical Intensive Care Unit .
He stayed in the unit for about one day .
During that period of time he received nebulizer treatments with Albuterol .
He was also started on intravenous Ticarcillin for possible gram negative pneumonia .
He was diuresed with intravenous Lasix to which he responded with at lease a 2L urine output on the first day and 1.5L the second day .
After one day in the Medical Intensive Care Unit the patient was stable enough to go to the floor where he continued the rest of his treatment .
This consisted of continued nebulizer treatments as well as intravenous antibiotics and intravenous Solu-Medrol .
As the patient &apos;s diuresis continued his respiratory status improved .
A chest x-ray showed clearing of the opacities in the chest x-ray that were consistent with pulmonary edema because he continued to have some abnormality in the right lower lobe .
The patient was continued on antibiotics for possible pneumonia .
The antibiotic chosen was Levaquin 500 mg 1 tab per day .
This was started on 4/2/99 and should be continued for ten days .
The Ticarcillin was stopped after two days when it was felt that he did not have a serious pneumonia .
The patient &apos;s respiratory status continued to improve but towards the last 2-3 days of his hospitalization the amount of improvement was minimal .
It was felt that his respiratory status has been maximally treated by then .
The patient &apos;s major improvement came after the first two days with brisk diuresis with Lasix .
While in the Oaksgekesser/ Memorial Hospital the patient on 4/4/99 complained of mild epigastric discomfort because he was put in Cimetidine while in the Intensive Care Unit for prophylaxis against peptic ulcer disease .
The patient was upgraded to Prilosec 20 mg per day for possible treatment of gastritis or gastroesophageal reflux disease .
The patient did have any nausea , vomiting or evidence of gastrointestinal bleeding .
The patient &apos;s abdominal pain should be followed over the next week or so in case it does not respond to Prilosec .
While in Oaksgekesser/ Memorial Hospital the patient was never able to get out of bed and walk independently .
It is hoped that when he is transferred to a rehab facility that he will continue with physical therapy to regain his strength and regain independence in activities of daily living .
Discussion with the family regarding the possibility of sending him to a nursing home was entertained however the family strongly refused to allow him to go a nursing home .
They wanted the patient to return to his home after a stay at a rehab facility .
