ADMISSION DATE :
08/15/1998
DISCHARGE DATE :
08/22/1998
DISCHARGE DATE :
08/22/1998
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
Breunlinke is a 70-year-old patient of Dr. Brendniungand Asilbekote in California .
She is referred for progressive angina .
She had rheumatoid fever as a child and a heart murmur noted but no further testing .
She has used antibiotic prophylaxis since 1980 .
In 1980 she had quadruple coronary artery bypass graft surgery by Dr. Elks at Feargunwake Otacaa Community Hospital and did well until 1988 when she had exertional angina and a positive stress test and found that three or four grafts were occluded .
In October , 1989 , Dr. No re-did her bypass operation .
She had a left internal mammary artery graft to the left anterior descending , saphenous vein graft to the obtuse marginal 1 and a saphenous vein graft to the obtuse marginal 2 .
In 1993 she had a DDD pacemaker for complete heart block .
She had exertional angina at that time .
In November , 1997 she had a small myocardial infarction as was transferred to Ona Hospital where a cardiac catheterization showed a tight left internal mammary artery to left anterior descending stenosis , high grade saphenous vein graft to obtuse marginal 1 stenosis and patent obtuse marginal 2 graft .
She had normal left ventricular function with apical tip akinesis .
Since that time she has continued to have exertional left chest burning , radiating to the left neck and arm , relieved by nitroglycerin .
She was turned down for re-do surgery at that time and did not have a percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty .
Because these symptoms have been increasing , particularly at cardiac rehabilitation , she was referred here .
In May , 1998 she had an exercise tolerance test in which her heart rate went to 112 and her blood pressure fell to 95 systolic .
She had diffuse ischemic ST segment changes and increased lung uptake and a reversible anterior and lateral defect .
She has had no syncope .
Her cardiac risk factors are hypertension and elevated cholesterol .
She has a very strong family history of coronary artery disease with a mother , sister and brother dying of myocardial infarction .
She is a remote cigarette smoker .
She also has a history of lactose intolerance , peptic ulcer disease , with a remote gastrointestinal bleed and multiple ectopic pregnancies and mid term miscarriages .
She has had a total abdominal hysterectomy .
SOCIAL HISTORY :
She is a widow for 20 years and retired 18 years from Palmci
She lives alone .
Her son , Nertland is nearby and he works at the Em Nysonken Medical Center on Verville .
They live in Ohio .
HOSPITAL COURSE AND TREATMENT :
The patient was admitted to the Cardiac Catheterization Laboratory .
There , her pulmonary wedge pressure was 12 and her right atrial pressure was 4 and pulmonary artery pressure 44/17 .
Her left ventricular contraction showed akinesis of the anterior wall with dyskinesis of the apex .
She had preserved inferior contraction and basal contraction .
Her native right and left anterior descending vessels were occluded as was an obtuse marginal branch .
The saphenous vein to the high diagonal or high obtuse marginal was occluded .
The left internal mammary artery to the left anterior descending was also occluded .
The saphenous vein graft to the second obtuse marginal was open with no significant stenosis , but there was an outflow lesion in the obtuse marginal 2 as well as severe distal lesion as the obtuse marginal 2 fed the posterior descending artery .
This was considered her culprit lesion .
This was considered too high risk for angioplasty because of the severe disease in the graft .
In addition , it was noted that she had saphenous vein harvested from both thighs .
Her left internal mammary artery was also unused .
It was also noted that she had failure to sense with the atrial lead .
She would not sense the atrial contraction and the fire and this occasionally led to competition of firing .
This was intermittent .
The P wave amplitude was .6 and this could not be totally sensed .
The patient was admitted for management of her coronary artery disease and evaluation of her pacemaker .
It was noted that she became very symptomatic when she was not on a beta blocker but that on a beta blocker she had significant pacemaker failure .
Her pacemaker was set to a VVI mode which sensed appropriately .
She was in sinus rhythm with most of the time .
When her pacemaker was in a sinus rhythm without a beta blocker , she had significant angina .
Carotid non-invasive testing was unremarkable .
The situation was reviewed with Dr. Niste Graft .
He felt the patient was not a coronary artery bypass graft candidate because of the lack of conduit and because of the presence of a large anterior myocardial infarction .
For this reason , it was decided to maximize her beta blockers and nitrates .
The situation was reviewed with Dr. No of the Pacemaker Service .
On August 20 , under local anesthesia the right pectoral region was explored and the leads disconnected and the pulse generator changed to a CPI unit in which the sensitivity could be adjusted to .15 mm. , which permitted appropriate atrial sensing .
There was nothing wrong with the prior generator and nothing wrong with the leads .
It just needed a unit that could have more sensitivity in the atrial mode .
She tolerated this well .
Her medications were resumed .
She ambulated without difficulty and was discharged to home to be followed medically for her coronary artery disease following two failed bypass graft procedure by Dr. Brendniungand Asilbekote in Bi Masase , KS .
ACHASTHA N. GRAFT , M.D.
TR :
hfr
DD :
08/22/1998
TD :
08/27/1998 3:56 P
cc :
ACHASTHA NICEMAEN GRAFT , M.D. GITTETUMN DARNNAMAN NO , M.D.
