Admission Date :
2016-03-31
Discharge Date :
2016-04-01
Service :
MEDICINE
History of Present Illness :
50 yo male , h/o CAD s/p stent to LAD in 2011 , Hypercholesterolemia , DM , cocaine abuse , presenting with chest pain .
He states he had onset of this pain today ; described as anterior chest pain with radiation to right shoulder , 09-26 , was increasing over the course of 45 minutes to 1 hour ( occurred after arrested ).
He states that he also felt SOB and diaphoretic but denies n/v/palpitations .
He reports that the pain was increasing in intensity .
He was brought to Providence Behavioral Health Hospital where he was found to have positive urine cocaine , EKG with new 2-7392 W. Second Cr. elevations in the anterior leads ( v2-5 ) and some ST depressions in II , III , AvF .
He was given lopressor 5 mg x 2 ( 3rd dose given by medflight , 5 mg morphine , ativan , nitro gtt , heparin , and integrillin .
Pain was 12-28 at time of transfer .
In the cath lab , he was found to have hazy plaque in LAD ( prior stent ) , 80% hazy plaque in circumflex , and a totally occluded PLB ( with collaterals ) .
1 cypher stent was place in the LAD while 2 were placed in Lcx .
Right system was not intervened upon , for the PLB was unable to be crossed by wire .
He was transferred to the CCU for observation .
Brief Hospital Course :
1. CAD : presented with anginal symptoms and EKG changes ( STEMI ) , with cardiac catheterization revealing lesions in LAD , LcX , and PLB .
Unclear if hazy lesions significant or if this was cocaine induced vasospasm .
LAD and LCX were stented , but PLB could not be crossed by guidewire ( were collaterals ) .
- continue ASA , statin , Plavix ; will hold BB given recent cocaine use ( ? can consider labetalol if necessary ) , Integrillin for 18 hours
- CK negative .
TN WNL .
- post cath check normal
2. CHF : EF 25% on Echo , states he takes lasix at home
- Started lisinopril .
- Consider repeat Echo in 1 month and Quincy Medical Center - V/ICD per discretion of primary cardiologist .
- kept euvolemic and monitored for signs of overload
- Low Na diet with 1 liter fluid restriction
- may need to diurese based on clinical status , swan numbers
3. Rhythm : No ectopy post cath MI
4. DM : on metformin at home , will hold given cath / dye adn cover with SSI
5. Cocaine use : last use this morning , no BB given this ; considered using CCB / phentolamine if chest pain recurs .
-- Will discuss beta-blocker risks and benefits with primary cardiologist
-- Pt advised of medical risks of using cocaine
6. EtOH use : unclear how much , monitor on CIWA for signs of withdrawal , ativan prn
-- CIWAs were 0 throughout admission
7. Hyperlipidemia : on lipitor 80 .
LDL 79 , HDL 51
8. Social : in police custody , with 24 hr guard , handcuffed to bed
9. FEN : cardiac diet , watch for aspiration given somnolent status at this time , ck and replete Mg/K/Ca aggressively
10. Code : FULL
11. Dispo : back to prison; ? extradition to Hawaii
