Admission Date :
10/30/2006
Discharge Date :
11/03/2006
Service :
RNM
HPI :
62 yo m w / IgA nephropathy , developmental delay , began HD 7/31 .
Was seen in dialysis on day of admission and was seen to have &quot; raccoon eyes &quot; and HD staff was worried about sending home .
Head CT w / o bleed .
Trauma series normal .
Pt denies abuse or loc associated w / fall , but has noticed several recent falls .
Recent neuro w / u including EEG , carotid u / s , head ct ( old stroke ) , dobutamine-MIBI ( fixed defect and small inferolateral reversible ) were all negative .
Notable
HOSPITAL COURSE :
1. Falls A PT consult was obtained to assist with ambulation .
A social work consult was also obtained and deemed that the patient has appropriate support at home and is safe at home .
The patient was placed on telemetry and had no telemetry events while an inpatient .
He was also seen by the Electrophysiology service , his pacemaker was interrogated and working fine , with no signs of recent ventricular arrhythmia .
The patient his undergoing a TTE prior to discharge to rule out a thrombus .
His TTE showed EF 45-50% , moderate cLVH , abnormal diastolic function , moderate MR , moderate TR and severe LAE .
THere was a question of ionfiltrative cardiomyopathy , and the patient underwent abdominal fat pad biopsy to assess for amyloidosis .
He also currently has an SPEP / UPEP/Beta 2 microglobulin / ACE test that are currently pending .
These should be followed up as an outaptient .
He had carotid ultrasound studies 3 months ago that were normal without evidence for stenosis .
2. Renal - cont MWF HD ; electrolytes have been stable .
Perhaps his recent falls are related to orthostatic hypotension after dialysis .
3. CV -The pt has a small area of reversible ischemia on recent MIBI , and has troponins persistently elevated in the setting of his renal disease .
His troponins remained lower than his baseline levels and there was no suspicion of ACS causing syncope .
He continued on his zocor , cozaar and labetalol .
We will now hold his coumadin given his recent falls and bleeding risk .
His aspirin was restarted prior to discharge .
4. Endo - TSH was 4.7 and normal .
5. Heme :
The patient has a macrocytosis .
His B12 level was 418 and normal .
He does have a history of B12 deficiency in the past , and evidence for peripheral neuropathy BLE which may also be contributing to his recent falls . ? EtOH
6. Psych :
watch for EtOH WD .
THe patient had no signs of alcohol withdrawal .
His serum toxicology screen was negative .
7. Pulm :
COPD and R pleural effusion , off oxygen and stable .
8. GU :
R complex renal cyst , bladder diverticula .
THe patient will need a follow up ultrasound to further evaluate these incidental findings seen on imaging upon admission .
9. ID :
The patient &apos;s urinalysis was normal .
He had no fecal leukocytes .
A c.difficile test is negative on prelim read , however very low suspicion given no recent antibiotic use .
