ADMISSION DATE :
04/07/97
DISCHARGE DATE :
04/08/97
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
Mr. Vessels is a 49-year-old man status post orthotopic heart transplantation in 1991 at Dautenorwe Stuart Erec Hillpa Of Hospital who is admitted with dyspnea and severe heart failure .
Mr. Vessels &apos;s postoperative course has been marked by CMV infection , hypertension , poorly controlled lipids , peripheral vascular disease , and chronic renal insufficiency with a creatinine of 1.8 or so .
Recently he had documented coronary angiography based on a catheterization performed in January 1996 with moderate to diffuse atherosclerosis .
A repeat angiogram performed a year later showed marked progression of coronary allograft disease .
A biopsy at that time revealed grade 1B rejection with endothelialitis and eosinophils .
He was treated with pulsed IV steroids and Imuran , was augmented with mycophenolate Mofetil .
Chest x-ray showed cariogenic pulmonary edema and he was faring poorly .
Prior to admission he was seen approximately 1 week in the office with mild congestive heart failure .
An echocardiogram then revealed an ejection fraction of 40% and an endomyocardial biopsy revealed no ejection .
HOSPITAL COURSE AND TREATMENT :
The patient was admitted to the hospital via the emergency room where a bedside echocardiogram was performed .
The echocardiogram revealed no pericardial effusion , an ejection fraction of 30% and worsening systolic dysfunction .
Hydrocortisone was given 1 g in an attempt to reverse what was thought to be aggressive coronary allograft vasculopathy .
The patient diuresed and responded to Lasix 100 mg administered in the emergency room and was admitted to a monitored bed .
At 2:30 AM the following morning the patient was found in cardiac arrest .
Despite intravenous fluids , intravenous epinephrine , and multiple attempts at defibrillation , the patient was unable to be resuscitated .
Upon arrival of the covering access physician the patient was being ventilated mechanically and CPR was being performed .
The rhythm revealed sinus tachycardia with no palpable or measurable blood pressure .
There were also runs of ventricular tachycardia which generated into ventricular fibrillation that was refractory to multiple cardioversions .
A pericardiocentesis was attempted with no yield of pericardial fluid .
A transvenous pacing wire was attempted and a pacing rhythm was obtained but with no palpable blood pressure .
In total , the patient was defibrillated 10 times , given 5 courses of intravenous epinephrine , one course of intravenous Atropine and intravenous calcium x 1 in addition to an amp of bicarbonate .
The resuscitation efforts were discontinued at 4:15 AM and were begun at 3:38 AM .
The patient was pronounced dead .
Patient &apos;s mother was informed by Dr. Vessels .
An autopsy permission was granted .
