ADMISSION DATE :
11/04/2000
DISCHARGE DATE :
11/09/2000
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
Mr. State is an 81-year-old man with a history of restrictive and obstructive lung disease , dilated cardiomyopathy , inferior myocardial infarction , and anterior mediastinal masses admitted with acute onset of pulmonary edema .
In the setting of inadvertently decreasing Lasix from 80 mg. po 40 mg. a day Mr. State had sudden onset dyspnea after approximate day and a half prodrome culminating in severe dyspnea .
Upon arrival in the Emergency Room Mr. State &apos;s saturations were in the mid 80s and he was promptly rendered more comfortable with high flow oxygen , morphine , and nitrates and intravenous Lasix .
Chest x-ray was relatively unrevealing for interstitial or alveolar edema and with clinical improvement ensued with the immediate therapy in the Emergency Room as noted .
The patient denied angina , syncope , preceding worsening orthopnea , paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea , palpitations , chest pain , hematemesis or melena .
HOSPITAL COURSE :
The patient was admitted to the Hospital and underwent an approximate 1.5 liter diuresis within the first 24 hours with improvement in his symptoms and improvement in his oxygen saturations .
After a long discussion with the patient and his family it was determined that a cardiac catheterization would be prudent .
Prior to catheterization a VQ scan was performed which revealed a moderate probability for PE with a subsegmental defect in the lingular on the left lung .
Subsequent lower extremities noninvasive studies and D-dimer test were both negative rendering the probability of acute pulmonary embolism less than 2 percent .
It was not felt that the patient would be in need of chronic Coumadin therapy in lieu of this low probability findings in toto .
Coronary angiography revealed occlusion of the right coronary artery proximally with insignificant plaquing in the left anterior descending artery and circumflex arteries .
After a approximate 3 liter total diuresis the right atrial pressure was 5 , pulmonary capillary wedge pressure 14 , pulmonary vacuolar resistance 353 and the cardiac output depressed at 2.95 liters per minute , or a cardiac index of 1.7 liters per minute .
Based upon these findings it was felt that Mr. State most likely has multi-factorial dyspnea owing to both his ventilatory limitation and to a chronic low output state .
In Hospital he was seen by both Speech Therapy , physical therapy , and the Uspend Harmemewood Medical Center Congestive Heart Failure Nurse Practitioner Program .
His Isordil was increased in Hospital and blood pressure control was relative episodic with systolic pressures ranging between 100 and 160 .
Future adjustments will be made at home pending his blood pressure measures .
At a goal weight of 142 pounds , Mr. State &apos;s filling pressures appeared ideal with a wedge pressure of 14 and his goal weight range will be between 142 and 44 pounds at home .
The patient will be followed by Dr. State within a week of discharge and by Nieie Naebrand Freierm of the Dyathenslycha Medical Center .
