ADMISSION DATE :
05/08/95
DISCHARGE DATE :
05/14/95
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
The patient is a 72-year-old right-handed gentleman with a history of coronary artery disease status post myocardial infarction in 1984 .
Also with a history of noninsulin dependent diabetes mellitus , now presenting with acute blurry vision on the left side , which is homonymous .
The patient woke up as usual on May 8 , 1995 .
At 8 a.m. the patient was looking at his wife with the background outside a large window .
The patient had sudden onset of blurred vision , where the right side of his wife &apos;s face looked blurred .
The patient did not notice change of vision in the background .
The blurred vision was homonymous , which he had blurred in each eye in the left visual field .
The same blurred vision was also noticed later when the patient was watching television and also when he was reading .
The patient was seen at the Ochtuheihugh Put University Medical Center and then he was referred to the Purckecation Balpoingdelt Pabarnes- Campa Memorial Hospital .
At 8 p.m. the patient seen at the Purckecation Balpoingdelt Pabarnes- Campa Memorial Hospital and was examined and assessed .
The patient was referred to Ph University Of Medical Center for rule out transient ischemic attack and rule out stroke .
The patient denies any nausea , vomiting , ataxia , motor deficits , speech deficits or sensory deficits .
The patient lightly bumped his head on the top three times on the previous night and the patient had frontal headaches and a tight neck .
One hour after he had physical activity on the previously night as well .
ALLERGIES :
The patient denies any drug allergies .
HOSPITAL COURSE :
The patient was admitted with a right occipital cerebral infarction .
The patient was started on intravenous heparin and had the studies as described above for rule out source of embolic strokes including carotid noninvasives , transcranial Dopplers , Holter electrocardiogram and echocardiogram .
The patient also had serial electrocardiogram , which showed no change .
The patient also had serial creatinine kinase with MB fractions studied , which revealed MB fraction too low to be tested .
The patient also experienced a feeling of moving back and forth when lying down with neck extended during the magnetic resonance imaging study and also in bed .
This moving sense , with normal electroencephalogram , was thought to be a mild vestibular dysfunction or from the acute episode of the stroke .
The patient will have these symptoms only when the eyes are closed .
Our opinion was not to intervene or have any further studies for acute period and to continued to observe .
The patient did have a hypotensive episode and the systolic blood pressure was 80 , after the patient received his regular cardiac medications .
The patient had been off his regular medications since during the admission and will be discharged off his medications .
Otherwise , there were no further episodes of blurred vision .
The patient was stable with an unchanged neurological and physical examination and was discharged on aspirin 325 mg po qd , on May 14 , 1995 .
The patient will be randomized on the Wars study early next week by the Stroke Service at Ph University Of Medical Center .
