Admission Date :
2012-05-21
Discharge Date :
2012-05-25
Service :
CMED CCU
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
This is a 55-year-old female with multiple prior admissions for pneumonia , COPD , asthma exacerbation , over 3 weeks of upper respiratory like infection unremitting with increased nebulizer treatments at home .
The patient saw her PCP and was known to have an oxygen saturation of 82 to 85 percent on room air .
She was referred to the Emergency Department .
In the Emergency Department , the patient received Zithromax , ceftriaxone , and Flagyl .
Chest x-ray was remarkable for a questionable left lower lobe infiltrate .
The patient received nebulizer treatment with oxygen saturations increasing up to 98 percent on room air .
HOSPITAL COURSE :
Shortness of breath .
The patient was maintained on albuterol nebulizer treatments and Ipratropium nebulizer treatments , as this was apparently thought to be related to her chronic obstructive pulmonary disease .
Given the presence of consolidation on chest x-ray , however , and previous history of pneumonia , the patient was maintained on antibiotics of Zithromax 500 mg daily and ceftriaxone .
The patient was also started on Solu-Medrol IV for active airway disease component of her shortness of breath .
The patient was maintained on supplemental oxygen and sputum production was maximized with the help of an Acapella device and respiratory therapy .
Mucomyst was also considered as a mucolytic component towards secretions .
Adrenal insufficiency .
The patient was maintained on IV Solu - Medrol 60 mg q. 8 h.
Chest soreness .
The patient describes chest discomfort without any significant EKG changes .
The patient was maintained on Percocet p.r.n. for pain relief .
This was thought to be related to musculoskeletal .
There was no evidence of acute rib factors on her chest x-ray .
GI .
The patient was maintained on PPI for reflux disease and known gastritis .
CMED .
The patient has a history of neurogenic bladder and , therefore , she required a Foley catheterization .
Endocrine .
The patient was on Levoxyl at home as her home dose for hyperthyroidism .
CMED CSRU transfer .
The patient was transferred on the evening of 2012-05-22 to the ICU given persistent carbon dioxide retention and respiratory acidosis and the intermittent mental status changes .
The patient had had ABG on the floor , which prompted her to transfer to the ICU .
Her pH was 7.23 , PCO2 73 , PO2 146 on a nonrebreather .
The patient had BiPAP initiated once she reached the unit , but did not tolerate it , becoming apneic and obstructing .
The patient was switched to 2 liters nasal cannula and oxygen saturating at 98 to 100 percent .
After BiPAP was initiated , the patient became hypotensive down to 75/28 and bradycardiac , responding to 3 fluid boluses over the course of the night .
The patient was started on Florinef for concern of adrenal insufficiency ; however , she was hemodynamically stable that morning and was transferred back out to the floor .
It was thought that the patient may have been mucous plugging during her stay in the ICU .
Hematologic .
The patient has a history of high MCV and megaloblastic cells on smear in the setting of anemia ; question B12 deficiency , the patient also has a history of borderline low B12 levels .
The patient was diagnosed for B12 deficiency due to her long history of poor p.o. intake .
Methylmalonic acid levels were sent , the results are pending at the time of discharge .
