Admission Date :
2017-04-26
Discharge Date :
2017-05-01
Service :
CARD CMED
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
This is a 62 year old gentleman who underwent an exercise treadmill test for screening through the Beth Israel Deaconess Hospital-Needham Clinic .
The test was positive for EKG changes and shortness of breath .
The patient has no history of chest pain; no history of myocardial infarction .
The patient was referred to Cambridge Health Alliance for cardiac catheterization .
Cardiac catheterization showed an ejection fraction of 50% , left ventricular end diastolic pressure of 20 , 90% left anterior descending lesion , 80% left circumflex lesion , 80% mid right coronary artery lesion and 80% distal right coronary artery lesion .
The patient was referred to Dr. Rota for coronary artery bypass grafting .
HOSPITAL COURSE :
The patient was admitted to Saint Vincent Hospital on 2017-04-26 and underwent a coronary artery bypass graft times four with left internal mammary artery to left anterior descending , saphenous vein graft to right coronary artery , saphenous vein graft to PDA and saphenous vein graft to obtuse marginal with Dr. Rota .
Please see the Operative Note for further details .
The patient was transferred to the Intensive Care Unit in stable condition on Neo-Synephrine infusion .
The patient was weaned the next day from mechanical ventilation on his first postoperative night .
Postoperative days one and two , the patient continued to require Neo-Synephrine to maintain systolic blood pressures greater than 100 .
On postoperative day two , the patient 's hematocrit was noted to be 23.1 ; he was transfused one unit of packed red blood cells as well as given a dose of Lasix .
The Neo-Synephrine was weaned off by postoperative day number three .
The patient 's chest tubes were removed on postoperative day three without incident .
The patient was started on low dose Lasix and Lopressor which he tolerated well .
On postoperative day number four , the patient was transferred from the Intensive Care Unit to the regular part of the hospital where he began working with Physical Therapy and on his first session he was able to ambulate 500 feet and climb one flight of stairs while remaining hemodynamically stable without requiring any oxygen .
On postoperative day number five , the patient continued to remain hemodynamically stable .
The patient 's epicardial pacing wires were removed without incident and the patient was cleared for discharge to home .
