Admission Date :
2019-02-28
Discharge Date :
2019-03-26
Service :
CARDIOTHORACIC
History of Present Illness :
Mr. Pizano is a 75 y/o man who has a PMHx significant for Enterococcus mitral valve endocarditis which has been treated since 09-19 .
He has had 2 6 week courses of antibiotics with recurrent bacteremia .
He had a TEE on 2019-01-22 which revealed thickened mitral leaflets with small vegetations on both anterior and posterior leaflets with moderate to severe mitral regurgitation .
He has preserved LV systolic function with mild TR and AR and LAE without abscess .
He had a repeat TEE on 02-19 which revealed 4 + MR .
Thomasine was tranferred from MWMC ( where he was admitted on 02-15 with fevers and positive blood cultures ) to IDMC for further treatment and possibly MVR .
Brief Hospital Course :
As mentioned in the HPI , Mr. Mcculley was transferred from MWMC to Nantucket Cottage Hospital for ongoing care ( ? MVR ).
And Infectious disease consult was immediately made .
IV Daptomycin was continued via PICC line which was inserted on 02-20 at MWMC .
Mr Stutts had an extensive preop evaluation including cardiology , infectious diseases , orthopedics , psychiatry and ethics services .
He ultimately was brought to the operating room on 03-19 .
At that time he had a Mitral Valve replacement , aortoomy , and left atrial appendage resection .
His bypass time was 103 minutes / crossclamp 89 mins .
Please see OR report for full details .
He tolerated the surgery well and was transferred from the OR to the CSRU on Epinephrinne and Propofol infusions .
He did well in immediate postoperative period .
Following surgery his anesthesia was reversed , he was weaned from ventilator and successfully extubated .
His iv medications were also weaned to off .
On POD1 His PA line and chest tubes were removed , he was also started on Beta blockers and diuretics .
On POD2 the patient remained hemodynamically stable and was transferred from the ICU to F2 for continued postop care .
Over the next several days with the assisstance of the nursing staff and physical therapy the patients activity level was advanced , he was transitioned to all oral medications with the exception of his antibiotics .
On POD7 it was decided that the pt was stable and ready for discharge to rehabilitation .
It should be noted that the patient did have episodes of postoperative atrial fibrillation , he was seen by the
Electrophysiology service , started on Procainamide and Coumadin .
