ADMISSION DATE :
04/30/2005
DISCHARGE DATE :
5/14/05 05/14/2005
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
The patient is a pleasant 83-year-old retired psychiatrist who presents with a chief complaint of gait difficulty for the last five to six months .
The patient has a history of laryngeal cancer in 2000 and 2001 , CVA in 2001 to 2002 and hypertension , who has a six month history of progressive difficulty in ambulation .
The patient was in previously good health when he reports starting to notice problems ambulating about six months ago .
His partner also reports that he has been having more difficulty with ADLs .
He reported that he began with difficulty buttoning his shirt for many years since after a stroke but now reports that on occasion she would ask him why he was doing certain things and he could not give a concrete example .
The patient was having a hard time walking and reports that he has felt weaker .
He has had uncoordination of his feet and began having a cane four to five months ago with the increasing weakness .
This was especially bad when trying to arise .
The patient has seen his primary care physician who referred him to physical therapy for his gait weakness but his symptoms failed to improve .
He continued to progress until two weeks prior to admission when he was found in the bathtub , unsteady and fell trying to steady himself .
The patient could not be moved and had to have 911 called for help .
Since that time he had been ambulating with a walker and has had increasing difficulty with falls in the last two weeks .
The patient was again seen by his primary care physician and a CG scan revealed a mass in the right parietal lobe .
The patient was referred to the Neurology Service for further workup of the mass .
The patient denied blurry vision , headache , nausea , vomiting , paresthesias , pain in mental status , confusion or seizures .
The patient is status post radiation therapy and resection and reconstruction for his laryngeal cancer .
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS :
Positive weakness , otherwise negative .
