Admission Date :
2015-11-22
Discharge Date :
2015-11-27
Service :
CMED CCU-GREEN
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
The patient is a 73 year old male with a recent history of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation and hypercholesterolemia who presented to the Emergency Department with the chief complaint of syncope .
The patient was discharged from The Hospital for Orthopedics with the diagnosis of pulmonary embolism about six months prior to the current admission and was started on Warfarin .
One month prior to this admission , the patient reports not feeling well with worsening gastric distress .
A few weeks prior to admission , he fell down on his back and started taking ibuprofen 1000 mg once a day for pain and Vioxx in addition to his aspirin and Coumadin regimen .
The night prior to admission , he was found by his wife on the bathroom floor in a pool of urine , unresponsive without any body movements , post-ictal state .
EMS was activated , however , the patient refused to go to the hospital .
A similar episode happened at 2 a.m. the same night and at 07:45 on the day of admission , the patient lost consciousness once again when he was trying to sit up .
He was then transferred to The Hospital for Orthopedics .
The patient reports some nausea and epigastric pressure which is post-prandial .
He denies any emesis , melena , diarrhea or constipation .
He describes the room spinning with attempts to sit upright .
No history of previous episodes was noted .
Denies incontinence .
He does have diaphoresis and weakness with orthostatic changes .
In the Emergency Department , stool guaiac was trace positive .
Hematocrit was 24.8 , with a baseline of 46 .
Gastric lavage was grossly positive for coffee ground material .
His INR was found to be 4.4 .
He was given Vitamin K 10 mg subcutaneously , 2.5 liters of normal saline , two units of packed red blood cells and two units of fresh frozen plasma and transferred to the Medical Intensive Care Unit for further management .
HOSPITAL COURSE :
The patient was transferred to Medical Intensive Care Unit for further management for acute GI bleed .
1. Gastrointestinal bleed :
The patient continued to receive blood transfusions on the floor and serial hematocrits with serial INR checks were drawn .
As he was receiving his third unit of packed red blood cells , the patient became tachycardic and short of breath .
His temperature raised from 98.6 F. , to 101.0 F.
He was shown to have rigors .
The transfusion was stopped and the patient was given Tylenol 1 mg with epinephrine , 100 mg of hydrocortisone , 25 mg of Benadryl and Demerol 15 as well as Pepcid .
He had emesis times three of 75 cc of coffee ground material .
The patient also desaturated to the low 80 s and was started on a non-rebreather mask .
His saturations improved quickly on 100% non-rebreather mask within 15 to 20 minutes .
Shortly after his mental status changed ; he became disoriented and euphoric and continued to be in this state for two more hours .
After that period of time , his mental status gradually improved and he continued to receive his blood transfusions requiring a total of ten units of packed red blood cells and four units of fresh frozen plasma to reach a hematocrit of 30.0 , which remained stable for the duration of his stay .
On admission , the patient was started on high dose proton pump inhibitors for prophylaxis .
On Wednesday , 11-25 , an esophagogastroduodenoscopy was performed and was significant for the following findings :
Medium hiatal hernia , Barrett's esophagus , erosion of the gastroesophageal junction , granularity , erythema and congestion of the antrum in the pre-pyloric region compatible with gastritis .
Erosions in the antrum and pre-pyloric region , granularity , erythema and congestion of the anterior bulb and posterior bulb compatible with duodenitis .
It was recommended by Gastroenterology that the patient is to stay off aspirin for at least four to six weeks at discharge to prevent further bleeding .
2. Cardiovascular :
During transfusion reaction episode , the patient had an episode of tachycardia ranging from 134 to 158 , for one to two hours .
EKG during this episode was taken and showed sinus tachycardia ; however , serial enzymes were significant for CK peaking at 1075 , MB peaking at 114 and MB index peaking at 10.8 , consistent with myocardial damage .
The day following this episode , EKG showed loss of R wave progression in anterior leads and Q waves in leads III and AVF consistent with anteroseptal myocardial infarction .
The patient 's blood pressures remained stable during his stay .
He had no episodes of arrhythmia on Telemetry .
Cardiology consultation was obtained .
The myocardial infarction was attributed to demand ischemia secondary to acute hematocrit drop exacerbated by tachycardia secondary to blood transfusion reaction .
Further Cardiologic work-up was suggested as an outpatient at four to six weeks post discharge .
The patient was started on Lopressor , Lipitor and Lisinopril .
3. After ten units of packed red blood cells and four units of fresh frozen plasma transfusions , the patient 's hematocrit remained stable at above 30 .
His INR decreased to 1.3 at the time of discharge .
He required no blood transfusions for four days prior to discharge .
4. History of pulmonary embolism likely secondary to frequent flying .
The need for further anti-coagulation was discussed with the patient 's attending , Dr. Coleman , and it was decided not to continue anti-coagulation due to increased risk of gastrointestinal bleeding .
The patient remained symptom free during his stay in the hospital , saturating well in room air .
5. Endocrine :
The patient was restarted on Levothyroxine soon after admission .
His hemoglobin A1C was sent and it was pending at the time of discharge .
6. Single mental status change times two hours during episode of blood transfusion reaction .
Was most likely due to multiple drugs administered during the episode including Demerol .
After this episode , the patient 's mental status remained clear for the rest of the duration of his stay .
7. Prophylaxis :
The patient was sent home on proton pump inhibitors .
His Helicobacter pylori serology was sent and was pending at the time of discharge .
