ADMISSION DATE :
10/10/97
DISCHARGE DATE :
10/23/97
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
The patient is a 65-year-old male with a past medical history of diabetes mellitus , three-vessel coronary artery bypassgraft , congestive heart failure , who presents with a humeral fracture .
The patient is admitted for preoperative and orthopedic evaluations .
The patient presented with a comminuted fracture of the proximal left humerus when he slipped over the stairs , about to board an airplane back to Jeglas Blvd. , Jolouisrowarlihis , Alabama 86071 .
The fracture was seen by Orthopedics and was reduced .
During conscious sedation , the patient developed bigeminy ( the patient was sedated , did not feel chest pain or shortness of breath ) .
The patient presented to Bri Health in order to be evaluated for preoperative clearance .
He was reported to have had a myocardial infarction in the past ( EKG positive for ischemia , exercise tolerance test positive , cardiac catheterization positive , the patient is now status posta three-vessel coronary artery bypass graft in 1987 ) .
The patient also hada history of arrhythmia , found approximately ten years ago , unknown what type .
The patient was on coumadin recently , ? whether for the arrhythmia .
Coumadin was reportedly discontinued approximately six months ago secondary to planned surgery for diabetic retinopathy and glaucoma .
The patient did not have chest pain until approximately 1-1/2 years ago , when he began to have chest tightness ( pressure ) approximately every three months with stress .
The patient has no chest pain when walking slowly and can walk approximately 1.5 miles .
He can climb approximately three flights of stairs before becoming short of breath .
He does become slightly short of breath when lifting furniture .
On the day of admission , when he fell , the patient was experiencing no chest pain , no shortness of breath , and had no loss of consciousness , no head trauma with fall .
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS :
No fevers or chills , no chest pain , no shortness of breath .
The patient has stable three-pillow orthopnea and occasional paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea .
He has a chronic cough with clear sputum .
No hemoptysis , hematemesis , abdominal pain , black or tarry stools , dysuria / frequency/urgency .
HOSPITAL COURSE AND TREATMENT :
1. ORTHOPEDICS :
The patient has a severely comminuted fracture of the proximal left humerus .
He is status post a hemiarthroplasty on 10/17/97 .
He received Ancef preoperatively .
Physical Therapy has been seeing the patient and putting him through passive external rotation to the neutral position of the left shoulder and forward flexion with physical therapy assistance .
Brittle bones were noted during the operation .
A bone density scan would be recommended as an outpatient , in order to evaluate this .
2. NEUROLOGICAL :
The patient has right facial droop , right ptosis , stable and present for greater than one year .
3. CARDIOVASCULAR :
No chest pain , no shortness of breath , 1+ ankle edema .
The patient was ruled out for a myocardial infarction , given his fall at the airport and bigeminy seen on electrocardiogram that he developed during conscious sedation during reduction of the fracture .
Cardiology was consulted and aspirin and beta blocker added to his regimen , as well as chest wall nitroglycerin around the time of surgery , which was subsequently discontinued .
An adenosine SESTAMIBI was performed on 10/12/97 , which showed a negative electrocardiogram for ischemia and cardiac perfusion scans , with a moderate-sized , dense , fixed inferior defect indicative of scar .
A small / moderate-sized , mild-intensity , reversible posterior lateral defect was also seen , indicative of mild / moderate ischemia .
An echocardiogram was performed on Columbus Day which showed an ejection fraction of 50% , left atrial enlargement , thickening of the aortic wall consistent with atherosclerotic changes , left ventricle size , and systolic function within normal limits .
Cardiac monitor was placed on the patient , given the bigeminy , and he did rule out for myocardial infarction .
Cardiology recommended that in addition to the medications already stated above , his hematocrit be kept greater than 30 .
After his procedure on 10/17/97 , elevated CPKs were noted on 10/19/97 to 10/20/97 , and the first level was 744 , CPK # 2 635 , and CPK # 3 461 .
MB fractionations of the CPKs were all negative and were thought to be secondary to the patient &apos;s beginning physical therapy on 10/19/97 , and all muscular in origin .
4. GASTROENTEROLOGY :
GI was consulted on 10/15/97 for melena , decreased hematocrit prior to his humeral fixation surgery .
Upper endoscopy x 2 were done .
The first was on 10/15/97 , which showed clotted blood in the esophagus .
The stomach had evidence of prior surgery and old blood in the stomach .
It was thought that the blood in the esophagus was secondary to a possible Mallory-Weiss tear .
A second endoscopy was also performed several days later , in order to rule out a gastric ulcer , and also because the patient had had another episode of melena .
A gastric ulcer was found and this was biopsied and pathology is pending at this time .
This report needs to be followed up , and will be available at Bri Health in the Pathology Department some time within the next three to seven days .
The patient also needs a repeat endoscopy and a GI follow-up appointment inapproximately two months .
I have spoken with the patient in detail , and he will be getting in touch with his primary-care physician , Dr. Fordwoodall Stick , in Ranegei Pkwy , Verertliet , South Carolina 62156 .
The patient is to arrange follow up with a GI doctor in Jotar Boulevard , Cunahtampfordama , South Dakota 62848 through his primary-care physician .
The patient was initially on Cimetidine and Carafate here at Bri Health , and then switched to Prilosec 20 mg bid .
5. PULMONARY :
The patient &apos;s admitting chest x-ray showed an elevated left hemidiaphragm consistent with atelectasis versus splinting on that side .
Incentive spirometry was started .
Albuterol and Atrovent nebulizers were done .
The patient received chest physical therapy bid .
6. ENDOCRINE :
The patient needs still better diabetes control .
He has been somewhat noncompliant with his diet ( eating Pringle &apos;s in the room ) .
His NPH was recently increased today ( 10/23/97 ) to 24 units in the a.m. and 14 units in the p.m. with CZI sliding-scale coverage .
7. INFECTIOUS DISEASE :
The patient urinalysis on 10/19/97 showed moderate occult blood , pH 5 , albumin 1+ , white blood cells present , 2-50 red blood cell , 10-20 white blood cells , few bacteria , and moderate bladder epithelial cells .
Floxin 200 mg po bid was begun .
However , his urine culture from the same day remained negative , and this was discontinued two days later .
A repeat urinalysis on 10/22/97 was negative .
8. RENAL :
After the patient &apos;s procedure , he was felt to be volume overloaded .
He was given Lasix 40 mg IV x 1 and also had Nitro paste around the time of his surgery and beta blocker .
The patient became slightly hypotensive on the night of 10/18/97 with systolic blood pressures in the 80s to 90s.
His BUN/ creatinine rose from 16/1.2 on 10/18/97 to 25/1.9 on 10/18/97 to 22/9.1 to today &apos;s labs , which are 15/0.7 on 10/23/97 .
9. HEMATOLOGY :
The patient transfused 2 units on 10/15/97 for a hematocrit of 27.6 .
The patient transfused 2 units of 10/16/97 for a hematocrit of 30.03 .
The patient transfused 1 unit on 10/18/97 for a hematocrit of 29.4 .
The patient transfused 1 unit on 10/19/97 for a hematocrit of 27.9 .
The patient transfused 2 units on 10/20/97 for a hematocrit of 28.2.10 .
FEN :
Repleting potassium , magnesium , phosphorus as needed .
The patient was noted to be slightly hyponatremic over the past few days , with sodiums in the 128-132 range , but this was secondary to elevated glucose fingerstick blood sugars .
