Admission Date :
01/16/1996
Discharge Date :
01/20/1996
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
The patient has a history four years ago of being admitted to the Etearal Etsystems/ Hospital after suffering an acute anterior myocardial infarction .
The course had multiple complications requiring pressors .
He had a cardiac catheterization performed which revealed a three vessel coronary artery disease with an occluded RCA , 70%-80% proximal LAD , and a high grade left circumflex lesion after the OM with distal left circumflex occlusion .
The patient was subsequently medically management after this hospitalization and has done very well .
His most recent echocardiogram in April of 1995 showed an ejection fraction of 20% with a thin fibrotic septum with akinesis and moderately severe hypokinesis in all other regions except for the lateral wall .
The patient also had an electrocardiogram in April of 1995 which was negative following , however was at a low workload .
The patient &apos;s was most recently admitted to Centdick Naco Hospital Medical Center on Martin Luther King Day after becoming acutely short of breath after a five minute walk .
He had no chest pain , palpitations , diaphoresis , or nausea .
He called the EMT &apos;s and was found to be in pulmonary edema by chest x-ray at Centdick Naco Hospital Medical Center .
He was diuresed and ruled out for myocardial infarction .
His ECG showed no ischemic changes .
He was then transferred to the Retelk County Medical Center for further management .
HOSPITAL COURSE :
The patient was admitted for further management of his pulmonary edema .
It was felt that the patient possibly had a worsening of his coronary artery disease and therefore underwent cardiac catheterization on 01/17/96 .
At cardiac catheterization he had an RA pressure of 8 , an RV pressure of 52/10 , PA pressure of 60/25 , and wedge of 26 .
His coronary arteries revealed an 80% stenosis and a large OM .
The dominant left circumflex was occluded with left-to-left filling .
He also had a 50% LAD stenosis , a 100% large DT stenosis and a nondominant RCA with left RCA collaterals .
It was felt that this cardiac catheterization was not significantly changed from his previous catheterization .
Given his high right-sided filling pressure , he was started on Lasix for diuresis and his Captopril was increased for greater afterload reduction .
It was felt that the patient should have an augmented medical regimen and as an outpatient undergo an exercise tolerance test with viability evaluation to determine whether he would benefit from revascularization .
He was restarted on Coumadin for his low ejection fraction and started on diuresis with IV Lasix for two days and then switched to an oral Lasix regimen .
