ADMISSION DATE :
4/16/93
DISCHARGE DATE :
4/23/93
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
The patient is a generally healthy 85 year old female , who has had a five year history of right hip pain , worsening over the past several months .
Her pain is located in the groin and thigh .
It is aggravated by activity and improved by sitting or lying down .
It is associated with rest pain as well .
She uses a cane or walker for ambulation , and is limited to one to two blocks .
She does stairs one at a time and only with help .
She has difficulty with shoes and socks and foot care .
The patient &apos;s pain has not been relieved by Darvocet and Advil .
Radiographs demonstrate right hip osteoarthritis .
Having failed conservative management , the patient presented for elective right total hip replacement .
HOSPITAL COURSE :
The patient was admitted to the Orthopedic Service on 4/16/93 .
On that day she underwent clearance from the Cardiology Service , Dr. Shuff .
It was his impression that the patient &apos;s hypertension was controlled on hydrochlorothiazide .
Given the patient &apos;s low potassium level of 2.4 on the day of admission , he suggested supplementation with potassium .
The patient was cleared from surgery from a cardiology standpoint .
On the following morning 4/17/93 , the patient was taken to the operating room where she underwent a right total hip replacement , using a hybrid S-ROM system .
Postoperatively , the patient did extremely well .
The patient was seen in consultation with the physical therapy service initially for routine rehabilitation after a total hip replacement .
Her hemovac drains were removed on postoperative day # 2 as was her Foley catheter .
Her hematocrit remained stable in the low to mid 30 &apos;s and she did not require a transfusion .
The patient did have postoperatively hypokalemia to a level of 2.7 and subsequently was corrected with oral and intravenous potassium on 4/22/93 , the patient underwent a duplex ultrasound examination , which showed no evidence of of deep venous thrombosis .
The patient &apos;s Coumadin was thus stopped and she was switched to Bufferin .
The patient &apos;s hospitalization was uncomplicated .
She was discharged to the Encharlea Il Medical Center in New Hampshire .
