Admission Date :
2009-11-10
Discharge Date :
2009-11-12
Service :
CCU
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
The patient is a 61 - year-old white male with a history of coronary artery disease , status post 5-vessel coronary artery bypass graft on 2009-09-11 , who presents for elective right heart catheterization and pericardiocentesis .
The patient did well after his coronary artery bypass graft .
On 10-14 , the patient had a transthoracic echocardiogram which revealed a new , moderate-to-large sized pericardial effusion .
The patient was asymptomatic at this time , and the decision was made to monitor him and to start him on Lasix .
The patient had follow-up transthoracic echocardiogram on 11-04 which revealed a slightly large effusion .
A few days later , on 11-07 , the patient began to develop dyspnea on exertion with normal activity .
He also noted a new two to three-pillow orthopnea and paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea .
On 11-08 , he had an episode of acute shortness of breath with chest pressure which he describes as different from his typical angina with minimal exertion .
The patient spoke with his cardiologist who referred him for pericardiocentesis for persistent and symptomatic pericardial effusion .
On right heart catheterization , the patient was noted to have elevated right-sided and left-sided filling pressures with a pulmonary capillary wedge pressure of 19 and a right atrial pressure of 16 .
After 600 cc of serosanguineous pericardial fluid was removed , the patient was noted to have a pulmonary capillary wedge pressure of 9 and a right atrial pressure of 2 ; indicating resolution of tamponade physiology .
HOSPITAL COURSE :
The patient was transferred to the Coronary Care Unit after his therapeutic pericardiocentesis .
He was hemodynamically stable and without any complaints .
He was continued on his home cardiac regimen , but was started on indomethacin for post pericardiotomy syndrome .
Over the course of the night the patient drained an additional 400 cc of serosanguineous fluid from his pericardial drain pouch .
By the next morning , the degree of drainage had decreased considerably with only 60 cc drained over six hours .
The patient had a repeat transthoracic echocardiogram prior to drain removal which revealed the following :
A trivial / physiologic pericardial effusion one day post pericardiocentesis with no change from the study immediately post pericardiocentesis .
The pericardial drain was removed without any difficulty .
The pericardial fluid bag was removed without any difficulty with the decision to monitor the patient overnight and repeat the echocardiogram prior to discharge .
The patient had an enlarged left pleural effusion which was noted to layer on a lateral decubitus film .
We decided to perform a therapeutic thoracentesis .
The patient was prepped and draped in a sterile fashion , and 1150 cc of fluid were drained .
A chest x-ray was obtained post thoracentesis which revealed a significant decrease in the size of the left pleural effusion .
No evidence of pneumothorax .
On the morning of admission the patient had a markedly improved lung examination with increased air movement in the left base .
He denied any shortness of breath and had oxygen saturations in the 90 s on room air .
He had a repeat echocardiogram which revealed a trivial / physiologic pericardial effusion .
The patient was without any complaints and remained stable .
