Admission Date :
2015-04-16
Discharge Date :
2015-04-24
Service :
SURGERY
History of Present Illness :
This 78 year old Mexican speaking female presented to the emergency department on 2015-04-16 .
Her family memebers stated that she was found at home with altered mental status and diaphoresis .
She is diabetic .
Mental status improved after binasal cannula oxygen applied , at which time she localized right upper quadrant pain .
She developed leukocytosis and transaminasemia .
Brief Hospital Course :
Ms Malek was admitted on 2015-04-16 due to altered mental status and acute right upper quadrant abdominal pain .
Gallbladder ultra sound revealed a distended 1.6 cm_ non mobile stone in the neck .
HD # 01 20 She was monitored closely in the CMED .
On 2015-04-17 she was taken to the OR for lap converted to open cholecystectomy .
She tolerated the procedure well , see op report for details .
She was extubated and recovered well in PACU .
She remained NPO with IV fluids , foley catheter and Dilaudid IV for pain control , Unasyn for antibiotic coverage .
She returned to CMED for further monitoring .
She was noted to have low urine output at times .
She responded well to fluid bolusing .
POD#1 she was transferred to CC6 for further recovery .
She remained afebrile , she was given ice chips .
Physical therapy was consulted for strength and mobility .
POD#2 her pain was somewhat uncontrolled , she was placed on Dilaudid PCA with fair effect .
Urine output remained adequate .
She was monitored on telemetry for mild tachycardia and recieved IV beta blockers .
She ambulated with assistance .
POD#3 she was advanced to sips and clears , foley catheter was discontinued .
POD#4 , bilious drainage was noted in her JP .
She had worsening abdominal pain on exam .
She was held NPO .
She was taken to ERCP where sphincterotomy was performed and biliary stent was placed .
She tolerated the procedure well and returned to CC6 post-procedure .
JP remained intact with serosainguinous drainage .
POD#5 she c/o difficulty voiding , pt was straight cathed after bladder scan was obtained and revealed > 600 ccs urine .
POD# 05 25 she continued with intermittent complaints of urinary retention .
However she was able to void .
Renal function remained normal .
She did not require further straight catheterization .
She was advanced to clear liquids again without nausea or vomiting .
Her pain was well controlled by Tylenol .
Her home regimen of lantus was resumed for elevated blood glucose .
POD#6 , her diet was advanced to regular .
She required disimpaction and had hard stool in the rectum .
She was initiated on a bowel regimen and had no further incidents of diarrhea or constipation .
POD#7 she was discharged to rehab in stable condition .
Appropriate follow up appointments are recommended as well as prescriptions .
She should return in 6 weeks for removal of biliary stent .
