Admission Date :
2011-11-18
Discharge Date :
2011-11-22
Service :
CCU
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
The patient is a 61 - year-old Caucasian-speaking woman with a history of hypercholesterolemia and tobacco use who developed waxing and waning left substernal chest pain with radiation to the left shoulder on 2011-11-17 which lasted that entire day .
Upon waking on the morning of admission , she had 10/10 chest pain associated with nausea .
She presented to Charlton Memorial Hospital Hospital Emergency Department with inferior ST elevations ; at which time she became acutely hypotensive to a systolic blood pressure of 70 to 80 after receiving one ublingual nitroglycerin .
She then became bradycardic which responded to atropine and intravenous fluids .
In addition , she was given aspirin , Plavix , heparin , and morphine .
Immediately prior to transfer to Worcester State Hospital , she went into ventricular fibrillation arrest at 12:30 p.m. , at which time she was intubated and defibrillated back to sinus rhythm after five shocks .
She received an amiodarone bolus of 150 mg intravenously and was continued on an amiodarone drip while CMED CSRU-flighted to Boston Regional Medical Center_ where she underwent a catheterization .
The cardiac catheterization revealed a total occlusion of the proximal right coronary artery and diffuse right coronary artery disease .
She received three stents to the right coronary artery which was complicated by a proximal dissection .
She had good post percutaneous coronary intervention angiographic results .
Incidentally , an aortogram during the catheterization revealed a Debakey class I aortic ascending aneurysm , and the patient had a pulmonary capillary wedge pressure of 20 at the time of catheterization .
She was transferred to the Coronary Care Unit in stable condition and still intubated .
HOSPITAL COURSE :
1. CARDIOVASCULAR SYSTEM :
On the night of admission , the patient experienced post catheterization hypotension which required intravenous fluids and dopamine .
Electrocardiogram the following morning revealed normalization of her ST segments with evolution of Q waves .
Her dopamine was weaned off the following day , and her heparin was discontinued secondary to a right groin hematoma which had developed after the sheath had been pulled out by the fellow .
Her creatine kinases climbed ; reaching a peak of 3523 , which was down to 1500 at the time of discharge .
Also noted on the day of 11-20 , the patient self-extubated herself .
For her coronary artery disease , status post catheterization , she was given Integrilin for 18 hours .
She was continued on aspirin , Plavix , and Lipitor .
For her rhythm , amiodarone was discontinued as she was maintained in sinus rhythm after moving to the floor .
For pump , once transferred out of the Coronary Care Unit on 2011-11-20 , a beta blocker was begun at 12.5 mg of Lopressor p.o. b.i.d. which was titrated to 25 mg at the time of discharge .
Also , at the time of discharge , for increased afterload reduction , she was started on lisinopril 5 mg p.o. q.d.
On 2011-11-21 , the patient experienced atypical chest pain which was made worse with inspiration and movement .
It was not associated with any nausea or vomiting .
It did not radiate .
It was felt to be pain secondary to her self-extubation and noncardiac chest pain .
An electrocardiogram was checked which revealed no ST changes , and there was no increase in her downward trending creatine phosphokinases .
No further intervention was done .
The patient was treated with Tylenol orally as well as Ativan for anxiety that she had about going home .
She was pain free on the day of discharge .
Regarding her aortic ascending aneurysm , Cardiothoracic Surgery was consulted regarding further workup .
At their request , a CT scan of the chest with contrast was performed on the day of discharge .
Dr. Streeter from Cardiothoracic Surgery will follow up with the patient for further management in approximately one month as an outpatient .
His office will contact her to make that appointment .
2. PULMONARY SYSTEM :
As stated above , the patient self-extubated herself .
She complained of a sore throat which was likely the etiology of her atypical chest complaints .
This resolved with Tylenol and as needed doses of oxycodone .
Her lungs remained clear to auscultation bilaterally throughout the remainder of her hospital course .
At the time of this dictation , the CT of her chest was still pending .
The official result was not yet in .
3. FLUIDS / ELECTROLYTES / NUTRITION :
The patient 's electrolytes sere managed daily and repleted on an as needed basis .
She did receive intravenous K-Phos for a low phosphorous of 1.5 .
Her phosphorous rose appropriately to 3.6 at the time of discharge .
