Admission Date :
03/17/1998
Discharge Date :
04/12/1998
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
The patient is a 68 year old with acute leukemia .
The patient was in her usual state of health until about three weeks prior to admission when she began to notice increased weakness and bruising .
She presented to a Wood Emergency Department six days prior to admission .
Platelets were 9,000 , hemoglobin 9.5 , temperature was 100.4 .
The patient had a smear there consistent with ALL .
The patient was transferred to Norri Hospital .
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS :
No headache , no nausea , vomiting or diarrhea .
Some shortness of breath with allergies , particularly cats .
No chest pain .
The patient had been doing aerobics three times a week until a couple of weeks before admission .
HOSPITAL COURSE :
A Hickman catheter was placed and the patient was begun on chemotherapy .
The regimen included cyclophosphamide , daunorubicin , prednisone , Vincristine and PEG-asparaginase .
The patient tolerated the chemotherapy regimen well .
The patient began neutropenic on day five of induction .
The patient &apos;s liver function tests began to rise and she began to experience pulmonary symptoms including increased crackles .
The patient began to spike and a blood culture grew out Staphylococcusaureus .
The patient was begun on Gentamicin , Vancomycin and Piperacillin , which was changed to Gentamicin and Ceftazidime .
The patient continued to spike and was enrolled in a randomized trial , the patient was randomized to AmBisome antifungal treatment .
An abdominal MRI was performed to assess continued elevated liver enzymes ; however , the MRI was negative .
The patient was begun on Nafcillin due to continued spiking .
The patient began to experience urinary retention and was straight catheterized .
Thepatient developed a possible drug rash and Nafcillin was changed to Ancef .
The patient became constipated ; this resolved with laxatives .
The patient improved significantly and was thought to be ready for discharge by the 11th of April .
She will follow up with her primary oncologists , Dr A and Dr Dark , at IVMC , after her discharge .
