Admission Date :
2015-10-05
Discharge Date :
2015-10-08
Service :
MEDICINE
History of Present Illness:
The patient is a 91 yo woman with h/o HTN who came from Bridgewater State Hospital Rehab with substernal chest pain after exercise .
Pt had been in her usual state of health and performed here regular exercises .
After returning to her room she w noted SSCP without radiation .
No nausea , vomiting , diaphoresis .
They did an ECG at Bridgewater State Hospital rehab which demonstarted new ST depressions in V1-V4 .
She received ASA 81 mg x 2 and nitro SL x 2 with partial relief at nursing home .
On presentation to Providence Behavioral Health Hospital Amanda , her vitals were HR 68 , BP 142/68 , RR 28 , O2 sat 100% RA .
Exam was notable for RRR with no murmur , bibasilar crackles , guaiac negative .
EKG showed sinus brady , with old LAD and new ST depressions in V1-V4 .
Troponin was 0.07 .
She received ASA , nitro SL then gtt , morphine , metoprolol , and heparin gtt .
Cardiology discussed cath however , patient 's family turned down .
Transferred to CCU for further management and observation .
Brief Hospital Course:
INITIAL IMPRESSION :
90 year-old woman with h/o of HTN p/w substernal chest pain shortly after exercise at nursing home , with EKG showing ST depressions in V1-V4 and troponin 0.07.
Likely NSTEMI .
.
HOSPITAL COURSE BY SYSTEM :
.
* CV :
The patient 's family refused coronary artery catheterization .
The patient was given ASA , Plavix , heparin drip x 24 hours , nitro drip , atorvastatin , metoprolol , and lisinopril .
Her chest pain was controlled with morphine .
Her SBP remained in the 160s-170s on hospital day 1 and she was gently diuresed .
On hospital day 2 she experienced atrial fibrillation with HR in the 140s .
Her metoprolol dose was increased from 25 mg PO bid to 50 mg PO bid then 75 mg PO tid .
Her HR decreased to 70s-80s .
Her BP remained stable .
An ECHO showed that she had preserved EF and no wall motion abnormalities .
We decided given her age that she would not be a good candidate for cardioversion for her afib nor would she be a good candidate for coumadin .
Therefore we will continue rate control with metoprolol this can be titrated if needed , and aspirin and plavix for anti-coagulation .
She should also continue on lipitor and lisinopril .
She should have her chem 7 checked next week given the start of her new meds .
Will also need LFT 's checked in 3-6 months .
.
* Pulmonary :
Bilateral crackles at bases and midlungs , elevated JVP , trace bilateral ankle edema , and CXR with diffuse opacities suggest possible pulmonary edema , likely secondary to acute MI .
Her O2 sat was stable at 94-97% on 2.5L of supplemental O2 .
She experienced no respiratory difficulty during the hospital stay .
She was diuresed small amount .
Her CXR prior to discharge showed mild pulm edema and thus was given 40 of lasix prior to going to rehab .
She can be given prn lasix for weight gain or shortness of breath .
.
* Leukocytosis- She developed mild elevated WBC .
UA had 12-14
WBC 's , few bacteria .
She was initially started on Bactrim , but this was stopped as she was afebrile .
SHe has a culture pending which needs to be followed up at the nursing home and treated if positive .
.
* Code :
DNR/DNI
