Admission Date :
08/31/1992
Discharge Date :
09/07/1992
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
The patient is a 37-year-old white male with AIDS complicated by recurrent pseudomonas infections presently on Ceftazidime and Aztrenam complicated by MAI who comes in with fever , chills and blood cultures positive for candida species .
The patient has multiple AIDS illnesses including MAI who has multiple admissions for pseudomonas pneumonia .
His most recent admission was on 08/23/92 to 08/25/92 with fever and chills .
He was again treated with IV Ceftazidime for presumed pseudomonal pneumonia and discharged home on IV antibiotics which he is presently on .
The patient did well at home with decreasing fever and good appetite until the night prior to admission when he developed fever and chills .
Concurrent blood cultures grew out candida species at HCHP .
The patient &apos;s baseline O2 saturation is 92% on three liters .
He has a left arm graft placed for access three weeks ago which is used for blood drawing and IV medications .
He notes no tenderness , erythema , warmth or exudate from the passport site .
Medications at the time of admission include Dapsone 50 mg p.o. on Monday , Wednesday and Friday , Ceftazidime 1 gram IV q. 8 hours , Cipro 750 mg p.o. b.i.d. , Acyclovir 400 mg p.o. q. day , Megastrol 80 mg p.o. t.i.d. and G-CSF 150 micrograms subcu b.i.d.
HOSPITAL COURSE :
By problems :
1. Infectious Disease .
The patient was started on Amphotericine at .6 mg / kg for a total of 250 mg for positive blood cultures for candida .
The passport in his left arm was pulled and will be replaced if needed after the Amphotericine is completed .
The patient will continue on his antibiotics for pseudomonas pneumonia to complete the fourteen day course which was completed on 09/06/92 .
The patient was continued on his admission medications .
2. Hematology .
The patient was continued on his G-CSF with an increase in his white count to 8 from 1.8 .
The patient required multiple blood transfusions for a low hematocrit .
