Admission Date :
11/17/2003
Discharge Date :
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS :
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
The patient is a 65-year-old man with refractory CLL , status post non-myeloblative stem cell transplant approximately nine months prior to admission , and status post prolonged recent Retelk County Medical Center stay for Acanthamoeba infection of skin and sinuses , complicated by ARS due to medication toxicity , as well as GVHD and recent CMV infection , readmitted for new fever , increasing creatinine , hepatomegaly and fluid surge spacing , in the setting of hyponatremia .
Patient initially presented in 1991 with cervical lymphadenopathy , was treated with MACE / CytaBOM , and did well until 1997 , when he received six cycles of fludarabine for progressive disease .
In November , 2001 , he progressed to leukemic phase , received Rituxan and CVP .
Started Campath in July , 2001 , complicated by lymphopenia / neutropenia and CMV infection , and underwent MUD stem cell transplant in December , 2002 .
The patient had bone marrow biopsy , August , 2003 , for persistent pancytopenia , revealing mild hypercelluarity with 80% leukemic cells .
He was again treated with Campath , had recurrent fever in association with sinus symptoms , with CT scan showing left maxillary sinusitis in association with new skin nodules on right elbow and buttocks .
Patient was hospitalized September 26 to November 11 for what was diagnosed by skin biopsy and sinus washings as Acanthamoeba infection of skin and sinuses , without any progression to neurologic infection ( as assessed by head CT and MRI ) .
ID consult was obtained and he was initially treated with azithromycin , itraconazole , and pentamidine , with progression of skin infection .
Subsequent discontinuance of azithromycin , trial of 5-FC , with increasing neutropenia requiring discontinuance , change if itraconazole to voriconazole , given continued neutropenia , and trial of sulfadiazine , discontinued for increasing ARS .
Patient was maintained on p.o. voriconazole and IV pentamidine , with pentamidine nasal washings , with re-CT of sinuses near end of stay showing no change in disease burden .
He has had recurrent CMB infection in the setting of Campath therapy , requiring IV Foscarnet therapy during stay , with inability to tolerate valganciclovir maintenance suppression subsequently due to increasing ARS .
Hypercapture near end of stay was negative .
Patient experienced acute renal failure on chronic renal insufficiency , with previous baseline creatinine 1.6 , felt to be due to medication toxicity , requiring Kayexalate and Phoslo to manage electrolytes , but never any need for hemodialysis , with mild improvement of creatinine by discharge , with peak creatinine 3.4 , discharge creatinine 2.6 .
Patient struggled with GVHD , with extensive skin involvement , taking Cellcept , prednisone and cyclosporine at time of last admission .
Cellcept was discontinued in the setting of infection , but attempts to decrease prednisone or cyclosporine were unsuccessful .
Patient returns from rehabilitation after discharge on November 11 , with new fever up to 102.0 in DSCI clinic , increasing hepatomegaly as assessed by examination in clinic , and increasing creatinine .
Patient reports no significant changes in how he feels over the past week .
Denies cough , shortness of breath , chest pain , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , dysuria , neck stiffness , new skin lesions , worsening red petechiae , or increasing sinus symptoms .
Patient reports persistent mild right upper quadrant discomfort , recent poor appetite .
HOSPITAL COURSE :
Patient was admitted for diagnosis and treatment of new fever .
Workup on admission included a chest x-ray negative for pneumonia , an MRI of the liver to investigate for focal lesion , with no evidence for abscess or focal lesion on report .
Blood and urine cultures with only positive culture a blood culture on November 20 , with one of two bottles positive for coagulase negative Staphylococcus .
A repeat CMV hypercapture , negative for presence of CMV .
A repeat CAT scan of the sinuses with finding of progressive thickening of the left maxillary sinus and both sets of ethmoid air cells since prior study of November 9 , indicating progressive infection of Acanthamoeba and any possible superinfection with bacterial sinusitis .
In the days following admission , there was clear evidence for progression of erythematous nodules over both arms and right thigh at foci of Acanthamoeba infection , suggesting progressive skin involvement with Acanthamoeba .
Infectious disease consult was obtained and recommendation was to switch from voriconazole to itraconazole , on which there was more existing data on treatment of Acanthamoeba infection .
Pentamidine intravenous and nasal washings were continued .
Clinical progression of skin and sinus infection on maximal antimicrobial therapy continued , with emergence on November 20 of a new right-sided ptosis in association with a left homonymous hemianopsia , and fleeting confusion while febrile , prompting head MRI which revealed a large 5 x 2 x 4.3 cm region in the right occipital lobe of hemorrhage and edema , with dural and , likely , leptomeningeal enhancement in association with small foci in the right cerebellum and pons , concerning for early lesions of similar type .
Idiosyncratic reaction to cyclosporine was considered as cause for cerebritis , and cyclosporine was discontinued .
However , much more likely explanation is progressive infection of Acanthamoeba with new neurologic involvement .
Most likely source of fevers was judged to be progressive Acanthamoeba infection , even on maximal antimicrobial therapy .
A single blood culture positive for coagulase negative Staphylococcus was treated with a course of vancomycin in the setting of a PICC line and a chest x-ray on November 20 indicating possible developing pneumonia , resulted in a course of levofloxacin , for both possible pneumonia , as well as treatment of any bacterial superinfection of Acanthamoeba sinusitis .
Patient experienced steady decline , with persistent fevers despite all above measures , progressive areas of skin infection , more frequent episodes of confusion , and decreasing oxygen saturation in the setting of bilateral effusion , in the setting of fluid surge spacing .
On November 30 , a family meeting with patient &apos;s daughter and spouse , along with primary oncologist , Dr. Tomedankell Bile , attending physician , Dr. Mellerny Close , and house staff , was held to discuss patient &apos;s critical condition and inability to prevent progression of skin , sinus and neurological Acanthamoeba infection on maximal antimicrobial therapy .
Decision was made to withdraw aggressive measures of care , with priority on patient &apos;s comfort .
Pentamidine , itraconazole , Levaquin , acyclovir and GCSF were discontinued , along with other medications nonessential to patient &apos;s comfort .
DNR / DNI status initially established early during hospital stay remained in effect .
The patient was made comfortable with morphine for pain and for air hunger , and sinus suctioning was continued to relieve congestion , in conjunction with continuation of nasal sprays .
Tylenol was continued to control fevers and prednisone was continued to control inflammation and prevent precipitation of adrenal insufficiency .
Such measures have been continued through December 3 , and patient remains comfortable through this time .
This interim dictation to be followed by an addendum detailing end of hospital course .
Dictated By :
SHAA KACHOLERA STONGE , M.D. LN00
Attending :
LA K. SKI , M.D. OF1 WS584/564649
Batch :
2235
Index No. UWHS3TCPJ2
D :
12/03/03
T :
12/04/03
