ADMISSION DATE :
2/15/94
DISCHARGE DATE :
2/28/94
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
This 75 year old male had been noted to be anemic with an abnormal white blood count since at least November 1993 , while he was living in Aersing Rocuch Sun and his physicians there had begun to manage him with transfusions , and low dose hydroxyurea .
Apparently , a bone marrow biopsy at the time confirmed the diagnosis of chronic myelomonocytic leukemia .
He came to this country in late December 1994 to live with his son for a few months and was referred to me for follow up .
He had been noting night sweats , increasing fatigue , anorexia , and dyspnea , which were not particularly improved by increased transfusions or alterations of hydroxy urea .
He became profoundly thrombocytopenic , and ultimately was admitted to the hospital on 2/15 with headache and weakness .
HOSPITAL COURSE :
The patient was admitted to the hospital and begun on high dose Hydroxyurea , with a gradual improvement in his white blood count over the next few days .
He did spike a fever and began Ancef and Gentamicin , although cultures never revealed a source for this .
He also tried Amicar and continued on low dose Prednisone .
His headache improved , but her remained profoundly weak and intermittently febrile with dyspnea .
There was hemoptysis and intermittent gastrointestinal bleeding , while he remained profoundly thrombocytopenia .
Transfusions of platelets did not change his platelet count , presumably because of sequestration and a massive spleen .
Amicar was of uncertain value , but used intermittently .
A bone marrow biopsy revealed the transformation of his CMML to acute myelogenous leukemia , and given his other underlying medical problems , we chose chemotherapy with subcutaneous Cystosine Arabinoside and 6-Thioguanine , which he tolerated without incident and this brought his white blood count down to below 1,000 , and his spleen shrank noticeably , but he still could not maintain a bump in platelet count with platelet transfusions .
He was intermittently congested limiting our ability to give intravenous fluid , for his hydrea , although we kept him on Allopurinol .
The renal function deteriorated somewhat , hampering our ability to give him his Gentamicin .
The family maintained an extraordinary vigil over the days of his hospitalization , providing him with some food and constant attention , while we awaited the results of his chemotherapy and treatment of his infection .
He was intermittently restless and somewhat confused , and as his respiratory status deteriorated , the family agreed to a low dose Morphine drip which made him much more comfortable .
They agreed with a do not resuscitate status early on in the hospitalization and in the course of being maintain on low dose Morphine , he ultimately expired on 2/28/94 with the family present .
No autopsy was obtained .
