ADMISSION DATE :
08/24/1998
DISCHARGE DATE :
09/14/1998
ASSOCIATED PROCEDURES :
09/02/98 sternal debridement .
Bilateral pectoralis major myocutaneous advancement flap .
Right superiorly based rectus abdominis flap .
Primary closure of wound .
HISTORY AND REASON FOR HOSPITALIZATION :
The patient is a 79 year old gentleman with a history of an ascending aortic graft replacement in 1991 for aortic dissection .
At that time the patient 's hospital course was complicated by a sternal wound infection requiring a sternal debridement and subsequent abdominal flap .
The patient was then continued by report on Dicloxacillin for approximately one year following that reconstructive operation .
The patient apparently did well until June 1998 when he noted a bulge in his sternal area .
A ruptured aneurysm or pseudoaneurysm at the junction of the graft and arch was diagnosed and this was subsequently repaired .
The patient then had recurrent bleeding two weeks later which was once again repaired .
However the same problem recurred for a third time and a computer tomogram scan at an outside hospital showed an anterior hematoma .
By report the patient was at that time told that there was no more that could be done for him and was then apparently placed on comfort measures and pain control at the outside hospital .
However the patient was then subsequently transferred to Fairm of Ijordcompmac Hospital upon request of the family on 8/24/98 for further evaluation and possible intervention .
The patient was evaluated by Dr. Rhalt of Dentvailr. Medical Center .
As the patient 's early evaluation the patient underwent an aortogram which showed an ascending aortic graft with bulging flaps and a pseudoaneurysm at the anastomosis of the graft and arch just below the great vessels .
There was no evidence for a definite leak but there was evidence for gas bubbles in the anterior posterior distal ends of the grafts consistent with an infectious process .
At the same time the patient was seen in consultation by the Infectious Disease Service who upon culturing the patient 's sternal drainage switched the patient from intravenous Unasyn to Levofloxacin for what appeared to be Citrobacter and Diphtheroids in the wound cultures .
Subsequent to starting this antibiotic regimen the patient 's wound drainage appeared to subside .
Given all the findings on the aortogram and the subsequent chest computer tomogram scan it was discovered that the patient 's only real surgical option for cure was a risky operation that involved removal and replacement of the aortic graft probably with homograft and long term antibiotic coverage as well as a plastic surgical reconstructive procedure .
The patient understood the risks and potential benefits of the procedure and was willing to proceed .
The patient otherwise complained of no angina , no shortness of breath , no paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea , no edema , no palpitations or symptoms of syncope .
He did report a 20 lbs weight loss over the last several months .
HOSPITAL COURSE :
The patient was initially admitted to the Cardiac Surgical Service under Dr. Rhalt .
The patient was admitted to the Cardiac Surgical Intensive Care Unit given the patient 's precarious condition .
Over the next several hospital days the patient underwent aortogram as well as chest computer tomogram as outlined earlier .
The patient was also seen in consultation by the Infectious Disease Service as well as the Cardiology Service who assisted in managing the patient 's intermittent hypertension .
The patient was also seen preoperatively in consultation by the Plastic Surgical Service for potential sternal reconstruction .
After lengthy discussions with the patient and the patient 's family as well as the various consultant services it was decided that the patient was a viable candidate for aortic root replacement procedure using homograft .
This was obtained on 08/30/98 by Dr. Niste Rhalt of the Cardiac Surgical Service .
The patient was then subsequently taken to the Operating Room on 08/31/98 with the preoperative diagnosis of ascending aortic graft infection .
The procedure performed was homograft replacement of the ascending aorta with omentopexy and an open chest .
The aortic perfusions were via the femoral artery with venous return by the femoral vein .
The cardiopulmonary bypass time was one hour and 49 minutes .
The graft used was a homograft .
The patient tolerated the procedure fairly well and was transferred intubated to the Cardiac Surgical Intensive Care Unit with his chest open .
The immediate postoperative plans were for a short Intensive Care Unit stay and subsequent plastic surgical reconstruction of the patient 's sternum .
The patient was transferred to the Cardiac Surgical Intensive Care Unit in stable condition .
There he continued to be hemodynamically stable .
Of note , intraoperatively multiple tissue cultures had been sent .
In the Intensive Care Unit the patient was kept intubated and sedated until 09/02/98 which was postoperative day no. 1 following the homograft replacement .
On that day the Plastic Surgical Service performed further sternal debridement and subsequent reconstruction using bilateral pectoralis major myocutaneous advancement flaps and right superiorly rectus abdominis flap to cover the patient 's sternal wound with subsequent primary closure of that wound .
The patient tolerated the procedure well and there were no complications .
A number of indwelling closed suction drains were left in place so as to drain the bed underneath the muscle flaps .
The patient was then transferred back to the Cardiac Surgical Intensive Care Unit in stable condition .
At this point the patient continued to followed by Infectious Disease Service and continued to be on intravenous antibiotics which included Vancomycin and Levofloxacin .
The Operating Room cultures at that point were positive for Crinobactermium with sputum cultures being sensitive for yeast and gram positive cocci in clusters .
Over the next postoperative day the patient was awakened and weaned to extubate without significant difficulties .
The patient 's subsequent postoperative course was characterized by persistent hypertension which required a significant amount of antihypertensives including Lopressor 100 mg po three times a day , Captopril 100 mg po three times a day , as well as Procardia .
The patient otherwise continued to do well and was becoming more oriented as time went on and as his blood pressure was brought under control .
Subsequently on postoperative day no. 8 in the Intensive Care Unit the patient was felt to be ready for transfer to the Cardiac Surgical Inpatient Service .
The patient continued to be followed by the Infectious Disease Service who felt that the patient 's Jackson Pratt drains needed to stay in as there was still some significant drainage from them .
As per the Infectious Disease Service the patient was continued on Levofloxacin , Vancomycin as antibiotic coverage .
However on 09/08/98 the Infectious Disease Service was made aware that the patient 's intraoperative cultures had also grown out Mycoplasma humilius .
Given this finding it was felt that the patient would certainly need long term intravenous antibiotics to include at least six weeks of Vancomycin and then subsequent Levofloxacin for the Citrobacter and Mycoplasma as well .
The patient was scheduled for peripherally inserted central catheter line placement knowing that he was going to need long term intravenous antibiotics .
This was placed on postoperative day no. 9 without any difficulty .
At the same time the patient continued to be stable on his antihypertensive regimen .
He was becoming more mobile and was taking a high protein high calories diet which he tolerated well .
He continued to be afebrile and otherwise very stable .
On postoperative day no. 12 the patient was noted to have fallen and subsequently dislocating the PIP joint of his left middle finger .
Subsequent hand x-rays obtained showed no evidence of fracture but the patient was seen in consultation by the Plastic Surgery Hand Service .
The patient will benefit from splinting of his finger while the swelling subsided and subsequent early mobilization to prevent any rigidity in that joint .
The patient was also seen subsequently in consultation by the Plastic Surgical Service who discontinued a number of the patient 's indwelling drains but they felt that others needed to stay while the patient was sent to rehabilitation .
These drains will then be subsequently taken out by Dr. General upon his followup with the patient .
Prior to discharge the patient also underwent an audiogram as a baseline hearing test while the patient was to stay on long term intravenous antibiotics .
The patient otherwise continued to be hemodynamically stable making good progress .
As a matter of fact the patient made remarkable progress given the severity of his disease condition prior to the operation .
The patient 's condition continued to be improved .
Given this finding the patient was therefore felt to be ready for discharge to a rehabilitation facility on 09/13/1998 .
In consultation with the Infectious Disease Service the patient was to stay on long term intravenous antibiotics .
