ADMISSION DATE :
01-11-92
DISCHARGE DATE :
01-22-92
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
Ms. Tikrhalt is an 86 year old female , previously healthy , who presents with a 3 month history of dysphagia .
A subsequent workup including upper gastrointestinal series and abdominal computerized tomography scan suggested the presence of a gastric mass .
Endoscopy with biopsy revealed gastric carcinoma , poorly differentiated , within the body of the stomach along the greater curvature .
She was subsequently referred to Dr. Ko for a possible resection of this carcinoma .
She reports a 10 pound weight loss over the past several months .
She denies any abdominal pain .
HOSPITAL COURSE :
The patient was admitted to the Service of Dr. Fede A. Duhenile .
On 1/12/92 she was taken to the operating room where she underwent a neart total gastrectomy with a retrocolic Bill-Roth II gastrojejunostomy reconstruction .
In addition a small ventral hernia was noted upon abdominal exploration within a previous surgical incision .
This was repaired .
A needle jejunostomy catheter was placed at the time of her operation to facilitate postoperative nutrition .
With regards to the cancer , there was a large mass along the greater curvature in the body of the stomach , and several perigastric lymph nodes which were taken with the specimen .
In addition , there were at least two lymph nodes within the porta hepatis which were dissected free and taken en bloc with the specimen .
The remainder of her abdomen was unremarkable without evidence of metastatic spread elsewhere , including the liver .
The patient tolerated the procedure well and was taken to the recovery room in good condition .
The patient 's postoperative course was for the most part unremarkable .
Her wounds healed well without incident and the needle jejunostomy tube was utilized on the first postoperative day right up until the time of discharge , infusing Vivonex T.E.N.
The patient tolerated this without difficulty .
The patient 's nasogastric tube was removed on the 3rd postoperative day , and with the passage of flatus and good bowel sounds noted , she was started on a liquid diet which was advanced slowly .
She was seen by the dietician and was advised with regard to needing numerous small meals during the day rather than 3 larger meals as she previously was used to .
Her ambulation and mobilization increased gradually and by the time of discharge she was walking in the halls without assistance .
As mentioned , her wounds healed well without incident and the staples were removed on the 10th postoperative day just prior to discharge .
She had some difficulties with confusion in the early postoperative period which were attributable to her advanced age and a sundowning effect .
These problems resolved by the 4th or 5th postoperative day and she remained lucid and alert for the remainder of her hospital stay .
Surgical pathology report was completed prior to discharge which revealed poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma ulcerating and extending through the wall into the serosa of the stomach .
Metastatic carcinoma was present in 3 of 3 lymph nodes .
The gastric resection margins were free of carcinoma .
The patient was set for discharge on the 11th postoperative day doing well .
On the day prior to discharge she complained of some dysuria , a urine specimen was obtained , which showed numerous white cells consistent with a urinary tract infection .
She was started empirically on Bactrim , while culture and sensitivity results were pending and remained pending at the time of this dictation .
She will be discharged to home and will be seen in follow-up by her regular physicians as well as Dr. Ko .
