ADMISSION DATE :
10/14/96
DISCHARGE DATE :
10/27/96 date of birth ; September 30 , 1917
THER PROCEDURES :
arterial catheterization on 10/14/96 , head CT scan on 10/14/96
HISTORY AND REASON FOR HOSPITALIZATION :
Granrivern Call is a 79-year-old right handed white male with a history of questionable progressive supranuclear palsy , atrial fibrillation , deep venous thrombosis , and pulmonary embolus who presents with a change in mental status and a fall at home .
His family stated that he had a progressive mental decline over the past three years and was initially diagnosed with Parkinson &apos;s disease or features consistent with Parkinsonism .
This was poorly responsive to Eldopa .
He was later seen by Dr. Flo Cuchkote at the Ph University Of Medical Center and diagnosed with progressive supranuclear palsy .
Over the five to six weeks prior to admission he had a drop off in his mental functioning with more frequent episodes of confusion and disorientation and requiring more assistance with his activities of daily living .
He also developed a urinary incontinence .
He had had two falls to his wife &apos;s recollection , both times slipping off the edge of a chair backwards .
On the morning of admission at 8 o&apos;clock , he was noted to be moving his mouth less and speaking &quot; gibberish &quot; .
He was later sitting in a chair making multiple attempts to get up , which he subsequently did and promptly fell directly on his face at approximately 11:30 a.m.
There was no definite clonic activity .
There was no known incontinence .
He was taken to an outside hospital and nasally intubated and then transferred to the Ph University Of Medical Center Emergency Room where he was orally intubated .
A trauma evaluation was negative and thus he was transferred to the Neurology Service .
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION :
Coumadin 4 mgs po qhs , Vasotec 5 mgs po qd , Lasix prn , Digoxin 0.25 mgs poqd , Proscar and Sinemet .
ALLERGIES :
no known drug allergies .
HOSPITAL COURSE AND TREATMENT :
1) NEUROLOGY :
The patient was admitted to the Neurology Intensive Care Unit for intensive monitoring due to his frail condition .
He had an electroencephalogram performed on his initial admittance to the Intensive Care Unit which did not show any evidence of seizure activity .
It did , however , show diffuse slowing .
He was given 1.5 grams of Dilantin in the emergency room as well as 2 mgs of intravenous Ativan which did little to stop his rhythmic blinking that he showed from time to time on examination .
His hypertension ; his high blood pressure was controlled with intravenous nitroglycerine in the early going and then he was switched to an oral regimen for better control after he was removed from the Intensive Care Unit .
He continued to do well over the next few days and was quite surprisingly intact on both sides of his body in terms of his ability to move .
He did consistently have more movement on the left side of his body than on the right , but he gradually became more awake and alert and communicative and his endotracheal tube was removed on the second day of admission .
His diagnosis of progressive supranuclear palsy was placed under question on further examination of his eye movement since he was able to have excellent superior gaze especially with the bells phenomenon which would not be seen with progressive supranuclear palsy .
It was felt that his dementing illness and rigidity was most likely due to some type of cortico-basal ganglia degeneration process , but this was not clarified during this admission .
It was not felt likely to be due to Parkinson &apos;s disease , as he had no significant response to Eldopa in the past and the patient had no evidence of tremor , although he was quite rigid and bradykinetic .
He had an magnetic resonance imaging performed on October 18 , 1996 .
This showed the unchanged left temporal parenchymal interparenchymal hematoma and the old embolic right frontal infarct , but there were no new lesions and no evidence of his susceptibility studies to suggest old bleeds which might have been consistent with amylase angiopathy .
In addition , he gadolinium scan did not show enhancement at the area of his hemorrhage , so tumor was felt to be unlikely .
However , this issue will need to be re-evaluated in six months time once the hematoma is less prominent to see if there is possibly an underlying tumor or arterial venous malformation that could be currently compressed by the area of hemorrhage .
The etiology of his bleed was felt to be most likely secondary to hypertension , but these other causes could also not be ruled out .
2) CARDIOVASCULAR :
His electrocardiogram was concerning for ischemia .
He was on intravenous TNG and was supratherapeutic on his anti-coagulation .
He did have a slight elevation of his TPK with an additional value of 198 with a MB fraction of 5.7 , which makes for a percentage of 2.9 .
That was at the highest percentage that he had and after this his percentage came down to 1.6 , 1.0 on subsequent CKMBs and was felt that he had a very small &quot; leaflet &quot; .
He remained chest pain free throughout his admission .
3) PULMONARY :
After his initial intubation he remained quite stable .
He was found to be at a large aspiration risk given his decreased mental status and the lack of presence of a gag reflex .
However , he was given aggressive pulmonary toilets including chest physical therapy and aspiration precautions and the patient did not develop any pulmonary symptoms during his admission .
4) HEMATOLOGY :
He had his prothrombin time reversed with Vitamin K 2 mgs on admission subcutaneously as well as two units of fresh frozen plasma given in the emergency room .
His anticoagulation status had to be monitored very closely due to his history of deep venous thrombosis and pulmonary embolus as well as atrial fibrillation , but he could not be placed on a high amount of anticoagulation because of the new intraparenchymal bleed .
It was decided that his goal INR was to be 2.0 .
He did drop below 1.5 at one time , at which time he was placed on heparin intravenous to carry him through that period , but his discharge INR was around 2 and he was off of heparin at that time .
It was decided that he would have very close monitoring of his anticoagulation status in the future to prevent further problems .
5) GASTROINTESTINAL :
He was evaluated by the speech and swallow pathology group at the Ph University Of Medical Center and it was decided that he was able to swallow on his own with a soft solid diet with supervision .
Thus , his nasogastric tube was discontinued on October 19 , 1996 and he tolerated feeding quite well .
In discussions with the family , given his age and number of medical problems , it was decided that the patient should be do not resuscitate should he have a terminal cardiac event during his admission or during future admissions .
However , he was still an intubation candidate if it were felt to be a short term procedure .
The family realizes that the long term outlook for this patient is not very good , but they would like to currently continue to provide him with all support necessary , short of resuscitation measures or heroic measures should he have a cardiopulmonary arrest .
