Admission Date :
2014-02-21
Discharge Date :
2014-03-25
Service :
SURGERY
History of Present Illness :
Ms Crossman is an 84 year old female with complaints of abdominal pain , diarrhea , nausea and vomiting x 1 week , who presented to an outside hospital .
She was transferred to Arbour Hospital on 2015-02-21 for bowel obstruction , ischemia and worsening abdominal distention and pain .
Brief Hospital Course :
Ms Crossman was admitted on 2015-02-21 from an outside hospital to the ICU .
Neuro : Developed confusion during her first 5 days in the ICU .
Post-operatively mental status improved .
Intermitent delirium throughout admission .
Required restraints to prevent DC of pertinent therapies while in the ICU .
Currently AAOx3 .
Cardiovascular : Complained of chest pain during first few days of admission , a cardiology consult was obtained .
She recieved serial enzymes and EKGs .
Troponins remained mildly elevated as high as 0.6 throughout her admission , and most recent result now 0.1 .
She was treated in IUC for unstable angina with nitroglycerin .
It was recommended to maximize her medical treatment with Beta blockers , aspirin , a statin and an ACE Inhibitor .
Required diuresis of > 9 L while in the ICU , after 2nd surgery .
Continues to have trace lower extremity edema , and recieves lasix po .
Respiratory : She was intubated briefly post-op subtotal colectomy and again for several days after second surgery .
Recieved nebulizer treatments post-op in the ICU , after successfully extubated .
Gastrointestinal : Her initial CT scan showed dilated Turner colon , wall thickening and pneumatosis see pertinent results .
She was initially treated nonoperatively with IV fluids , antibiotics , serial exams and NGT decompression .
On HD#5 flexible sigmoidoscopy was performed for colonic decompression .
On HD#6 , colonscopy was performed for decompression , and revealed pseudomembrane and friable colonic tissue .
Her abdomen remained tender and distended despite attempted decompression .
She was taken to the OR for Subtotal Colectomy , G tube and ileostomy due to unresponsiveness to non-operative treatment .
Ileostomy remains pink and intact , draining green-brown soft stool .
Her post-operative course continued uneventfully in the ICU , and she was transferred to the floor POD#6 .
She developed additional abdominal tenderness and distention .
Her HCT dropped and she recieved 1 unit PRBCs .
Geriatric consult was obtained to assist with management .
On POD#8 a CT scan was obtained which revealed an abcess with a colovesicular fistula .
She was taken to the OR for exploration and drainage .
She recieved further resection of remaining colon , repair of a leak from Relaford pouch and repair of colovesicular fistula .
After her 2nd surgery she returned to the ICU and improved steadily .
Abdomen remained soft and nontender .
She remained on IV antibiotics x 14 days and required pressors for the first few days post-op .
Her incision has remained clean , dry , intact , with staples removed on POD# 27/18 .
Genitourinary : She had a foley catheter from the time of admission .
POD# 23/14 she recieved a cystoscopy which revealed no leak .
Her foley was subsequently dc 'd .
Musculoskeletal : Has suffered significant deconditioning since admission , but has consisitently recieved PT .
See PT note for further assessment and discussion .
Nutrition : She was held NPO at admission , and initiated on TPN by HD#3 .
Post-operatively she began on TF s, and the TPN was weaned down .
By POD# 05-29 she was having high residuals on TF s, so TPN was reinitiated .
Tf 's were dc 'ed prior to second surgery .
POD# 15/6 , she resumed TF 's and TPN was tapered again .
TF goals were achieved and TPN dc 'ed.
A diet by mouth was initiated .
At time of discharge she is tolerating a regular diet with TF 's at goal .
Patient is an insulin dependent diabetic .
She was followed by Cape Cod Hospital Clinic for treatment of persistent hyperglycemia .
Pain : Her pain was controlled with IV pain medicines while in ICU .
She has been adequately controlled with Tylenol , Motrin & Oxycodone by mouth , per recommendations by Geriatrics .
POD# 22/15 Ms Crossman was transferred to 3 North where she continued to progress well with PT , increasing PO intake , tolerating TF s, and weaning from nasal cannula oxygen .
She has remained stable with no acute events .
She is discharged to rehab on POD# 27/18 .
