Admission Date :
2016-12-24
Discharge Date :
2016-12-27
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
The patient is an 80 year old female with breast cancer , status post lumpectomy / radiation therapy / Tamoxifen ( 2000 ) , hypertension , hyperlipidemia , multiple urinary tract infections who presents with a four day prodrome of dry cough , rhinorrhea , coryza , malaise , chills , headache , decreased p.o. intake , loose bowel movements with diarrhea and no blood , decreased urine output , no sick contacts , had flu shot this year .
In the Emergency Department , she had labile blood pressure with systolic blood pressure in the 80 s .  
Her usual is systolic blood pressure in the 120 s , this was despite two liters of intravenous fluids and she was transferred to the Medical Intensive Care Unit for closer monitoring for possible early sepsis .
The Intensive Care Unit course was notable for initially receiving broad spectrum antibiotics as well as a white blood cell count of 11.0 with 15 bands .
She was ultimately changed to Levaquin for a possible early pneumonia pending cultures .
The Intensive Care Unit course was also notable for negative chest x-ray , two units of packed red blood cells for a hematocrit of 24.0 with appropriate bump in her hematocrit and no evidence of bleeding , stable blood pressure despite a net fluid balance of negative 2.5 liters .
No central access was needed .
The sepsis protocol was aborted .
Also of note , her liver function tests had been normal .
Random cortisol was 17 and her DFA was positive for influenzae A with a viral culture pending at the time of discharge .
Blood and urine cultures were no growth at the time of discharge as well .
She also had a right lower extremity noninvasive ultrasound that was negative for deep venous thrombosis .
HOSPITAL COURSE :
This is an 80 year old female with a history of Stage I breast cancer , hypertension , hyperlipidemia , who presents with a leukocytosis/bandemia , hypotension in the setting of dehydration and influenza .
After a short Medical Intensive Care Unit course where she remained hemodynamically stable , she was transferred to the floor .

