Admission Date :
2015-10-10
Discharge Date :
2015-10-21
Service :
CMED CSRU
History of Present Illness :
_62 year-old status-post gastric bypass and laprascopic cholecystectomy 7 weeks prior to admission who presented with fever , chills , and left lower extemity redness .
The patient has a history of multiple hospitalizations for lower extremity cellulitis and noted that his symptoms and the appearance of his left leg mirrored previous episodes .
He denied recent trauma to the area or travel .
Review of systems was significant only for painful urination over the past few days and a reduction in urine output .
He denied chest pain , shortness of breath , palpitations , abdominal pain , N/V , penile discharge .
Brief Hospital Course :
This 62 year-old obese male was admitted with cellulitis and presumed bacteremia .
In the John , he was found to be in hypotensive atrial fibrillation .
The patient was admitted to the Medical ICU where his hypotension was managed with IVF hydration and he was maintained on a diltiazam drip for atrial fibrillation .
After his heart rate was controlled , he was transitioned to oral medications and transferred to the medicine service .
1. Cellulitis / Bacteremia
Review of the medical record revealed several previous admissions for cellulitis and bacteremia .
Blood cultures on this admission and were positive for Beta streptococcus Group B .
The patient had previous episodes of the same infection , with lower extremity cellulitis the likely source .
A left lower extremity ultrasound was negative for deep venous thrombosis .
The patient was too large to have a CTA .
He was initially treated with vancomycin and zosyn while awaiting culture results .
Once the organism was identified , he was transitioned to a regimen of intravenous penicillin and oral levofloxacin , which had successfully treated the infection during his most recent admission 1 year prior .
He completed 7 days of levofloxacin and had a PICC line placed to facilitate a 2 week course of IV Penicillin .
2. Atrial fibrillation
The patient 's development of atrial fibrillation was believed to be secondary to infection and structural heart disease .
It was initially managed with intravenous diltiazam , and it was later managed with metoprolol and anticoagulation .
A transthoracic echocardiogram showed a mildly dilated and elongated left atrium , with a markedly dilated right atrium .
He had occasional episodes of rapid atrial fibrillation that were controlled with responded to IV metoprolol .
However , his rate proved difficult to control despite metoprolol and diltiazam .
The EP service was consulted and recommended transesophageal echocardiogram and cardioversion .
The TEE was negative for thrombus and the patient was successfully cardioverted to normal sinus rhythm with ibutilide .
He was subsequently started on amiodarone and is scheduled to complete a 10 week course .
EKG before discharge showed mild QT prolongation and no effect from amiodarone .
EKG and LFTs should be monitored by his PCP , William given the high dose of amiodarone he will receive .
3. FEN
He was followed by the nutrition team throughout his admission and their recommendations were followed .
He demonstrated several asymptomatic electrolyte deficiecies ; these were likely due to inadequate absorption following his surgery and he responded well to repletion .
Vitamin D and parathyroid tests were pending at the time of discharge .
The patient was discharged to Kindred Park View Specialty Hospital of Springfield Rehabilitation Hospital in good condition .
He was sent with a King of Hearts monitor and scheduled for follow-up with cardiology and his primary care physician .

