Admission Date :
2010-06-28
Discharge Date :
2010-07-01
Service :
ORTHOPEDIC
HISTORY OF THE PRESENT ILLNESS :
This is a 20-year-old female with no significant past medical history , who was the unrestrained passenger in a high speed rollover motor vehicle accident on 2010-06-27 .
By report , the patient was ejected from the vehicle on impact and found curled in the fetal position at the rear of the vehicle at the scene .
The vehicle was noted to be extensively damaged .
By report , the patient was noted to be awake , but confused at the scene of the accident with no memory of the incident .
She was immobilized in the C-spine collar at the scene of the accident and subsequently transported by EMS to the New England Sinai Hospital & Rehab Center Emergency Department for further management .
HOSPITAL COURSE :
The patient was evaluated by the Trauma Service in the emergency room , where she received four liters
crystalloid and four units packed red blood cells with good response .
In addition , the patient received the above-described diagnostic procedures , which demonstrated injuries limited to a posterior scalp laceration , left fractured clavicle , left fractured radius , right thigh hematoma , and right leg laceration .
The patient was subsequently admitted to the Trauma Service on 2010-06-28 under the direction of Dr. Lowery .
Given the patient 's right thigh hematoma , a duplex evaluation of the right lower extremity was performed on 2010-06-28 and demonstrated no evidence of major arterial or venous injury in the level of
the right inguinal region .
On 06-28 , the patient was also cleared for removal of her C-spine collar and deemed stable for transfer to the Orthopedic Service under the direction of Dr. Ronda Lopez .
The patient remained stable through 2010-06-29 at which point she was sent to the operating room to undergo a left radial fracture open reduction and internal fixation procedure .
The patient tolerated the procedure well and demonstrated a postoperative hematocrit of 40.9 .
Of note , the scalp and right lower leg lacerations were closed primarily by the trauma team on admission and on hospital day #1 were noted to be clean , dry , and intact .
Nonoperative treatment was elected for the patient 's left clavicular fracture .
On postoperative day #1 , 2010-06-30 , the patient was noted to be clinically stable , tolerating oral intake , and expressive of adequate amounts of urine independent of a Foley catheter .
The patient 's head wound laceration was noted to be clean and dry with intact staples .
There was no erythema or purulence .
The left clavicle was noted to have continued ecchymosis decreased from prior examination with a minor stepoff and mild tenderness to palpation decreased from prior examinations .
The left forearm dressing was noted to be in place , clean , dry , and intact with no saturation .
The patient was noted to be able to wiggle her fingers with intact flexor , extensor , abductor , and adductor function .
Mild swelling was noted in the left hand .
Sensation was intact in the median , radius , and ulnar-nerve distributions .
Fingers were warm and well perfused with capillary refill less than 3 seconds .
The patient 's right anterior tibial wound was noted to be clean , dry , and intact with sutures intact and no erythema or purulence noted .
On 06-30 , the patient was evaluated by Occupational Therapy and fitted for a left upper extremity splint .
The patient was also administered adaptive training for activities of daily life and advised regarding wound care .
In addition , the patient was also fitted with a figure-of-eight clavicular splint and instructed in its
proper use .
On 2010-07-01 , the patient was discharged from the hospital with instructions for follow up care on return to the United Kingdom .
