ADMISSION DATE :
6-15-94
DISCHARGE DATE :
6-26-94
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
Ms. Tlandkotesmitskote is a patient who came complaining of feeling dizzy and bumping into objects on her left side .
She is a seventy-one year old female with a history of hypertension who is in otherwise good health .
This morning while on a cruise ship , she was eating breakfast when she suddenly noticed she could not see a roll on her plate although she knew that it was there .
She also felt dizzy and the room was spinning .
While walking , she kept bumping into object on her left side .
She also complained of a dull , right sided headache over the right eyebrow .
Symptoms lasted about five hours and then gradually resolved except for the change in vision .
She denied having any weakness , numbness , or pain .
She also denies having hoarseness , difficulties in finding words , speaking , hiccups , or diplopia .
HOSPITAL COURSE :
The patient was admitted to the hospital for further evaluation and work up .
The patient was admitted to the Intermediate Care Unit in the Neurology Intensive Care Unit .
However , she was soon moved out of there as her examination appeared to be stable .
A Neurosurgery Service consultation was obtained and they felt that no surgical intervention was required .
The patient underwent a number of tests .
She had a magnetic resonance imaging study and magnetic resonance imaging angiogram performed which showed a large hemorrhagic lesion on the occipital lobe .
There was no clear enhancing mass , but follow up was suggested .
So an magnetic resonance imaging angiogram was obtained and showed the right parietal occipital hemorrhage .
The MRA showed mild narrowing of the left ICA just distal to the bifurcation .
There was also scattered T2 hyperintense foci within the periventricular and left frontal white matter consistent with small vessel disease , gliosis or demyelination .
A Holter monitor was obtained and showed that the patient was in normal sinus rhythm .
The heart rate was 53 to 106 .
There were some very rare atrial premature contractions .
There were no ventricular premature contractions .
An echocardiogram was obtained and showed that the ejection fraction was 60% and there was no thrombus .
It was felt to be within normal limits .
Over the ensuing days , the patient had several episodes of confusion at night .
However , these gradually resolved .
She also developed what appeared to be urinary tract infection and was placed on PO Bactrim .
By 6-26-94 , the patient was felt to be ready for discharge .
At that time , she was afebrile and her vital signs were stable .
She was tolerating a regular diet .
She was awake , alert and oriented to person , place , and time .
She continued to have a dense left hemianopsia , but otherwise was neurologically intact .
The patient was discharged home with Santea Gehawhi General Hospital care and instructed to follow up .
