Admission Date :
06/09/1998
Discharge Date :
06/12/1998
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
The patient is an 82 year-old right handed gentleman who has a past medical history of hypertension and tobacco use presented to the emergency room with acute change in mental status .
He was well until the evening prior to presentation to the emergency room when he complained of headache across the forehead .
On the day of presentation , he was then found by his daughter lying on his bed groaning , being relatively unresponsive and unable to speak .
The family reported one episode of vomiting at home .
HOSPITAL COURSE :
The patient was admitted to a telemetry bed and started on heparin .
Around 4:00 AM the next day , an acute decompensation in respiratory status was noted .
Lung examination at that point showed good air entry , no wheezing , coarse breath sounds throughout .
Neurologically , the patient was not following commands .
Eyes were closed .
He was moving the right arm and leg spontaneously , though less than before .
Withdrawal to pain was still present .
Both plantars were upgoing .
A blood gas at this point showed a pH of 7.49 , pO2 61 , pCO2 of 33 on 100% non-rebreather mask .
EKG showed sinus tachycardia .
The patient &apos;s temperature was 102 degrees .
A repeat CAT scan of the head was performed .
This showed continued evolution of the right posterior cerebral artery infarction now extending into the right cerebellar hemisphere .
There was also a high density adjacent to the right cerebellar infarction suggesting the presence of hemorrhage .
At this point , the patient was transferred to the intensive care unit .
An MRI and MRA of the head was arranged to evaluate the extent of his stroke and the posterior circulation .
The MRI showed infarct of the cerebellar hemispheres bilaterally , the right occipital lobe , the right thalamus and bilateral pons .
The MRA of the intracranial circulation demonstrated gross patency of the internal carotid arteries bilaterally and the basilar arteries .
The left vertebral artery was not visualized .
There was a dominant right vertebral artery .
There was mildly reduced flow in the branches of the right middle cerebral artery compared to the left .
There was visualization of flow within both posterior cerebral arteries .
Clinically , the patient continued to deteriorate .
Neurosurgery was consulted , however the neurosurgeons felt that there was no surgical option , since even in the case of cerebellar swelling , there would be no improvement from decompensation .
The patient was therefore treated conservatively with fluid restriction and blood pressure management .
Heparin was discontinued because of the risk of intercerebral hemorrhage .
The aspiration pneumonia was treated with Cefotaxime and Metronidazole .
The patient &apos;s family was involved and they decided to opt for DNR / DNI in view of the poor prognosis .
The patient passed away at 6:45 AM on June 12 , 1998 .
