Admission Date :
12/23/2009
Discharge Date :
12/30/2009
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
Patient is a 64 year old white male with a past medical history of smoking , coronary artery disese , hypertension , and hypercholesterolemia with a l0 cm abdominal aortic aneurysm .
Patient presented to his private medical doctor in Gewestster with transient calf pain on walking less than fifty yards .
Abdominal aortic aneurysm was discovered on examination and patient was referred to Retelk County Medical Center .
He was admitted on 10/17/09 and echocardiogram done on 11/13/09 revealed poor left ventricular function and cardiac catheterization was done on admission which showed three vessel disease .
Patient was referred to Cardiology and underwent a three vessel coronary artery bypass graft on 11/25/09 .
His post-operative course was complicated by an E. coli urinary tract infection and transient acute renal failure with increasing creatinine .
Patient &apos;s renal function returned to normal over several days , however .
The patient &apos;s last ultrasound of his aorta revealed a l0 cm aneurysm and he presented at the time of admission for an abdominal aortic aneurysm repair .
HOSPITAL COURSE :
Patient was admitted and taken to the Operating Room the next day on 12/24/09 where patient underwent an abdominal aortic aneurysm repair .
In his post-operative course , patient was sent to the unit and was put on perioperative Vancomycin .
Post-operatively , patient was found to have frequent aberrant atrial premature beats and some rare ventricular premature beats .
His lungs were found to have decreased breath sounds with a question of fluid overload .
There was a question of whether to start him on Quinidine versus beta blockers .
An echocardiogram was obtained which showed moderate left ventricular dysfunction with hypokinetic and akinetic areas throughout the left and right ventricle .
Patient was loaded with Quinidine and then started on a maintenance dose .
Patient converted to normal sinus rhythm once on Quinidine .
Patient was discharged from the unit on 12/30/09 and was sent to the floor .
His digoxin was found to be elevated so his Digoxin was held for four days while levels slowly came down .
Patient was restarted on Digoxin just prior to discharge .
Patient also was found to have elevated LDH , alkaline phosphatase , and amylase prior to admission .
Lipase was within normal limits .
Ultrasound was obtained of the biliary tree which demonstrated no abnormalities .
Patient was also found to have several complaints of awaking in the middle of the night with tachypnea and some bilateral chest pain associated with breathing .
Serial EKG and CK were obtained which were negative .
A chest X-Ray demonstrated some pulmonary edema .
An arterial blood gas at that time showed pO2 of 68 , saturation of 95% , a pH of 7.5l , pCO2 of 37 , a bicarbonate of 37 , and a pCO2 of 3l with a +7 base .
Patient &apos;s chest X-Ray , as mentioned above , showed pulmonary edema .
Patient was aggressively diuresed with resolution of symptoms .
