Admission Date :
10/22/2000
Discharge Date :
11/17/2000
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
The patient is a 47-year-old man with advanced stage chronic lymphocytic leukemia who was admitted for autologous bone marrow transplant as per protocol 94-055 of the Santusli Hospital .
The patient was originally diagnosed in 06/98 during a routine physical when he was noted to have a white blood cell count of 20,000 , weight loss , and swelling in his neck and groin .
He was watched after his initial diagnosis , but six months later he developed rapidly increasing leukocytosis and he became more symptomatic .
After treatment with three cycles of fludarabine he had 90% involvement of his intratrabecular space .
He was therefore treated with three cycles of fludarabine in combination with cytoxan .
After this therapy he achieved a protocol eligible minimal disease state .
However , he did have relative pancytopenia following this therapy .
He was taken to bone marrow harvest in 08/22 at which time insufficient cells were obtained to proceed .
He was returned previous to this admission for repeat bone marrow harvest and at that time he was given Neupogen prior to his harvest , and sufficient cells were not obtained to proceed with autologous bone marrow transplantation .
His most recent bone marrow biopsy revealed less than 5% of intratrabecular space involvement .
Recent CT scan showed no significant lymphadenopathy .
The spleen was within normal limits .
HOSPITAL COURSE :
1 ) Oncology :
The patient was admitted on 10/22/00 and received cytoxan and total body irradiation per protocol .
Autologous bone marrow infusion occurred on 10/29/00 and was uneventful .
His post-transplant course was complicated by pain from mucositis and recalcitrant nausea and vomiting .
The patient did not tolerate antiemetics well and it was subsequently decided to avoid phenothiazides secondary to jitteryness and restless legs .
2 ) Infectious Disease :
The patient remained afebrile until day +11 when he spiked and was started on ceftazidime .
Blood cultures and urine cultures were all negative .
3 ) Heme :
The patient acquired intermittent transfusions for pancytopenia .
4 ) FEN :
The patient was unable to tolerate adequate p.o.&apos;s in the last several days .
He was well nourished so TPN was not started .
I &apos;s and O &apos;s were balanced and maintained with IV fluids .
