Admission Date:
2014-03-31
Discharge Date :
2014-04-01
Service :
CMED
HISTORY :
Baby Alfonso Carroll is a full term infant born at 3.325 kg to a 35-year-old G2 , P1 , now 2 mother .
Prenatal screens - blood type O positive , antibody screen negative , hepatitis B surface antigen negative , RPR nonreactive , rubella immune .
GBS negative .
Maternal history notable for hypothyroidism on Levoxyl .
Primary cesarean section with previous pregnancy for arrest of descent .
Other meds : Paxil .
This pregnancy is complicated by a cyst noted on the umbilical cord on fetal ultrasound study at 18 weeks gestation .
Mother presented in spontaneous labor .
No perineal sepsis risk factors .
No maternal fever .
No prolonged rupture of membranes .
Clear amniotic fluid .
Anesthesia by epidural .
Vaginal delivery .
Apgars were 8 and 9 .
SUMMARY OF HOSPITAL COURSE BY SYSTEMS :
RESPIRATORY : He has been stable in room air throughout hospital course .
CARDIOVASCULAR : No cardiovascular issues .
FLUIDS , ELECTROLYTES AND NUTRITION : Infant initiated on 60 cc per kg per day of D10W .
D-sticks have been stable . Infant is allowed to ad lib breast feed which he is doing vigorously .
GASTROINTESTINAL : Infant is ad lib feeding .
An abdominal ultrasound was performed .
Initial impression included omphalocele with further imaging of the bowel to be done .
Surgery was consulted and Dr. Boston took patient to OR for exploration of cord on 04-01 .
Urachal duct remnanr found , removed and bladder repaired .
Post op course unremrakable .
PAtient began feeding first post op day and has done well .
HEMATOLOGY : Hematocrit on admission was 52.8 .
The infant does not require a new blood transfusion .
INFECTIOUS DISEASE : CBC and blood culture obtained on admission .
Initial CBC had a white count of 20 , platelet count of 386 , 63 polys , 2 bands , 23 lymphs .
Blood cultures remained negative at this time .
Infant has not received any antibiotics .
NEUROLOGIC : Infant has been appropriate for gestational age .
SENSORY : Hearing screen has not yet been performed but should be done prior to discharge .
