Admission Date :
2011-03-10
Discharge Date :
2011-03-15
Service :
Medford
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
This is an 83 year old woman with a history of hypertension who presents with slurred speech when dehydrated .
She has paraplegia secondary to HTLV exposure while on vacation in the Bahamas six years ago .
She presented with three days of general malaise , nausea , vomiting , shortness of breath , cough productive of white sputum .
She awoke with nausea on the day of admission and pleuritic chest pain .
She reports no sick contacts.
The patient has some difficulty talking and grasping right hand .
She came to the Emergency Department on the 2011-03-10 , with temperature of 99.0 F .; blood pressure of 97/50 ; heart rate 100 ; respirations 27 ; O2 saturation 84% on room air and 94% on two liters .
The patient had coarse rhonchi on examination .
Chest x-ray revealed mild pulmonary edema .
Chest CT scan was negative for pulmonary embolism but positive for consolidation .
She was started on Levofloxacin but the patient became hypotensive at that point with blood pressure of 70/45 and received a normal saline bolus to boost her blood pressure to 99/60 ; however the patient was admitted to the Medical Intensive Care Unit for overnight observation because of her somnolence and hypotension .
She was transferred to the Everett Firm on the 2011-03-11 and was mentating well and was stable for transfer .
HOSPITAL COURSE :
After transfer to the Floor , the patient was continued on Levofloxacin for a ten to 14 day course for presumptive pneumonia .
Due to her chronic diarrhea she was repleted with intravenous fluids .
For her depression , continued on Citalopram 10 mg daily .
For her paraplegia and associated muscle spasticity she was continued on her Zanaflex .
For deep vein thrombosis prophylaxis she was treated with subcutaneous heparin and for gastrointestinal prophylaxis she was treated with Protonix .
She was also evaluated by Physical Therapy and Speech and Swallow because of some report of dysphagia .
Physical Therapy felt that the patient was cleared for transfer home with services .
Occupational Therapy was also in agreement with the patient 's disposition home with services .
The patient was able to advance her diet well from liquids to solids , however , she was plagued with a persistent cough and some low grade fevers to 99.0 F .
Speech and Swallow evaluated the patient at bedside and recommended advancing to regular diet with regular consistency and saw no evidence of any dysphagia .
There was some question regarding restarting of the patient 's Coumadin given her positive lupus anti-coagulant status as well as the presence of her basilar artery stenosis .
The patient was discharged on the 2011-03-15 on the following medications .
