Admission Date :
2011-01-19
Discharge Date :
2011-01-25
Service :
MEDICINE
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
Mr. Eugene is a 67 year old male with a remote history of chronic pancreatitis due to alcohol abuse 30 years ago , who is transferred now from Rehab Hospital of the Cape & Islands Hospital for an ERCP and work-up for a cystic lesion at the head of his pancreas on CT scan shown at the outside hospital .
The patient presented initially to Rehab Hospital of the Cape & Islands Hospital at the end of December for abdominal pain , and was found to have pancreatitis .
During this admission , two CT scans had shown a question of an enlargement of the head of his pancreas
versus early pseudocyst .
The patient was discharged home early from this admission due to family needs .
While at home , the patient did not do well and could tolerate minimal food intake and lost about 20 pounds in one month .
On an office visit on 01-14 , the patient was found to have significantly elevated alkaline phosphatase .
That evening , the patient again developed abdominal pain " like his pancreatitis " with nausea and vomiting , for which he was admitted to the Rehab Hospital of the Cape & Islands Hospital .
In the Emergency Department at the Rehab Hospital of the Cape & Islands Hospital , the patient was noted to have vomited some heme positive material .
His complete blood count showed 11% bandemia with a total white count of 10 .
A HIDA scan showed no flow , question of pancreatitis versus common bile duct obstruction .
His electrocardiogram showed a normal sinus rhythm .
A chest x-ray was unremarkable .
During his admission to Rehab Hospital of the Cape & Islands Hospital , the patient had dropped his hematocrit to the 30 s with recorded melena .
He received an MRCP which was negative for evidence of stones .
An ultrasound showed normal gallbladder with no wall thickening but a dilated common bile duct of 8 mm measured on CT scan .
The patient had an attempted ERCP on 01-18 , which was unsuccessful due to a long nipple like papilla .
He was therefore transferred to Saints Medical Center for endoscopic retrogram cholangiopancreatography .
The patient 's blood cultures at outside hospital grew out Streptococcus sanguis-gordonii on 01-18 .
This was sensitive to Clindamycin , Erythromycin , penicillin S and Vancomycin .
Prior to this result , the patient had already been on Ampicillin , Sulbactam and Gentamycin .
It appears from the Discharge summary that the patient was placed on Unasyn 3 grams intravenously every six hours after his ERCP .
