Admission Date :
2010-05-17
Discharge Date :
2010-05-29
Service :
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
This is an 86-year-old female with a past medical history of diabetes and hypertension who presented to the Emergency Department with a two day history of shortness of breath and easy fatigability .
She also noted increased dyspnea on exertion .
Prior to this patient could walk upstairs but now cannot .
She denies chest pain , orthopnea , paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea .
However , the patient has noted some abdominal pain , intermittent times a couple of days , none on the day of admission .
Denied nausea , vomiting , diaphoresis , bowel movement changes .
She has noted increased urinary frequency .
Denies fever or chills .
Of note , she has had recent medication changes which included discontinuing Diovan and starting terazosin .
HOSPITAL COURSE :
The patient was admitted to the Cardiac Medicine Service and treated for presumed diastolic and systolic dysfunction .
Echocardiogram was obtained which showed moderately depressed left ventricular systolic function as well as hypokinesis of the lower half of septum and apex .
Also of note was the distal lateral wall hypokinesis .
The wall motion abnormalities were noted to be new .
It was believed that a troponin on admission in addition to the wall motion abnormalities she underwent a non-Q wave myocardial infarction prior to resulted in her current cardiac failure .
Throughout hospital course patient 's troponin trended down to less than 0.3 .
Heart Failure Service was involved .
She was continued with aggressive diuresis .
She was started on _________ with excellent diuresis , however , her renal functioning worsening .
A cardiac catheterization was deferred until the renal issue could be resolved .
However , her creatinine continued to increase .
Diuresis was halted and without improvement in creatinine .
Renal was consulted .
A renal ultrasound was obtained .
It showed a right kidney size of 6.3 cm and a left kidney size of 8.4 cm .
Given her hypertension which was very difficult to control , it was felt that she had renal artery stenosis and thus she underwent MRA of the kidney which showed severe right renal artery stenosis at its origin .
There was also moderate to severe focal stenosis of the left renal artery approximately 1.3 cm from its origin .
Dr. ______________ consulted on the case .
She was transferred to the unit overnight to assess volume which was noted to be optimal .
On 05-25 she underwent catheterization and subsequent stenting of the left renal artery .
Due to dye load required to assess the coronary disease were not visualized .
After the procedure the patient did well .
However , her creatinine has worsened up to 4.2 .
However , her urine output has improved .
She has not required hemodialysis at this time .
She will need close follow up of her renal functioning .
The patient is discharged to an extended discharge facility .
