Admission Date :
2017-06-28
Discharge Date :
2017-07-02
Service :
CMED CCU
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
A 40-year-old female with history of non-ST-elevation myocardial infarction in 2016-09-30 with stent to the LAD and 50% to the mid LAD , had instent restenosis in 2017-04-02 and then underwent brachytherapy to the RCA , who presented to Baldpate Hospital with several weeks of chest pain similar to her anginal equivalent and MI in the past .
It started at rest .
No relief with nitroglycerin x3 .
Radiates to the left arm .
Positive shortness of breath .
Troponins have been less than 0.01.
With history , will go for cardiac catheterization evaluation .
Still getting chest pain intermittently , but relieved by morphine sulfate .
Was on a Heparin and nitroglycerin drip with only intermittent relief .
HOSPITAL COURSE:
1. Chest pain :
The patient ruled out for myocardial infarction .
However , with her history of disease , patient underwent a cardiac catheterization .
The patient was found at cardiac catheterization to have mild diffuse instent restenosis in the mid stent , otherwise hemodynamically normal and the coronary arteries otherwise were without flow-limiting stenoses .
The patient was then continued on her cardiac medications .
It was felt that if we attempted aspirin desensitize her while an inpatient , then she would benefit from the use of aspirin and Plavix .
The patient was sent to the CCU and underwent aspirin desensitization protocol , which she tolerated well .
She had mild worsening of her asthma attacks , which was relieved by Benadryl and occasionally albuterol .
The patient found that if she took the aspirin in the evening with her Benadryl that she takes for sleep , that the asthma exacerbation did not occur .
Aspirin no longer should be considered an allergy for this patient , and she is going to take this as an outpatient .
2. Hyperlipidemia :
The patient 's Lipitor was increased to 80 mg q.d.
3. Back pain :
This is a chronic issue and was controlled with Flexeril and Vicodin .
