Admission Date :
2014-04-23
Discharge Date :
2014-04-28
Service :
MEDICINE
History of Present Illness :
HPI :
Ms. Franklin is a 34 - year-old woman with Bipolar disorder and group home resident who by way of EMS for apparent alprazolam overdose .
In the St. Margaret 's Center for Women & Infants , the patient was lethargic and unable to give a history .
She was promptly intubated for airway protection and in order to administer charcoal .
Patient was found at group home in am laying on floor by bed unresponsive , last seen awake 8 hours prior at dinner .
Group home states that patient " may have taken too many Xanax .
Patient has a history of suicidal ideations and self mutilation .
Later patient told CMED CCU that she was feeling down and impulsively ingested 5 days worth of medications , she states that her intent at that time was to end her life .
Brief Hospital Course :
CMED CSRU Course :
Patient was intubated in John for airway protection and administation of charcoal .
Toxicology consulted and felt that patient most likely had benzo overdose .
ABG revealed widened A-a gradient so a d-dimer was sent which was elevated .
Patient had CTA which showed bilateral pulmonary embolisms .
Patient was started on heparin drip and bilateral lower extremeties were done which were negative for DVT .
Patient was exubated after 1 day in ICU after waking up .
Overnight in the ICU patient was noticed to have painful bullae on hands and arm along with swelling .
Dermatology and plastic surgery were consulted who felt that symptoms were due to trauma ; it was not felt that patient had compartment syndrome .
Patient was splinted and UE were kept elevated .
Patient was gradually put back on her outpatient xanax dose of 1 mg qid and clozaril was restarted .
Patient was transferred to floor after spending 1 day in the ICU .
Once on the floor patient stable .
Plastic did not feel that patient had any compartment syndrome and recommended aggresive upper extremity elevation for swelling reduction .
While on the floor patient 's hands improved with good range of motion of left hand , however Jones some poor range of motion of right .
X-ray of the hands and wrist were obtained which were negative .
Patient seen by PT and OT who recommended hand exercises and splints for patient .
Patient was put on coumadin that was bridged with lovenox unti lINR theraputic 01-23 .
Patient conitnued to have SI while on floor and was transferred to psychiatry .
While on the floor patient 's urinalysis suggestive of UTI and was put on 6 day course of levofloxacin .
