ADMISSION DATE :
03/07/2002
DISCHARGE DATE :
03/13/2002
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
The patient is a 79-year-old man status postradical cystoprostatectomy with ileal loop for locally invasive prostate cancer .
This operation was performed 2/11/02 by Dr. Doje Para .
The postoperative course was complicated by atrial fibrillation with transfer to the Cardiac Step-Down Unit .
This transfer occurred around postoperative day 8 for anticoagulation and amiodarone load .
The anticoagulation was stopped due to concern for postoperative bleeding .
The patient complained of fevers .
The patient presented to the emergency room on 3/7/02 , complaining of fevers since Monday 3/2/02 .
He developed erythema around the wound on Wednesday and was seen by Dr. Para , who started Keflex and obtained a CT scan which demonstrated a fluid collection at the site of erythema .
The fevers continued as high as 102.5 degrees F with chills on the morning of admission .
He was draining pus from the wound site with subsequent relief of discomfort at the site .
HOSPITAL COURSE :
The patient was admitted to Urology .
After the wound was further opened , he was started on ampicillin , Gentamicin , and Flagyl antibiotics and he was placed on a bid dressing change and packing .
On hospital day 2 , the patient had no complaints .
He was afebrile with stable vital signs and good urine output .
The wound erythema was improving and the wound was packed twice a day .
Wound cultures remained negative at that time .
We continued his ampicillin , Gentamicin , and Flagyl .
By hospital day 4 , he remained afebrile throughout his hospital course .
The wound cultures demonstrated gram-positive cocci in clusters and gram-negative rods .
Blood cultures remained negative .
The patient was continued on antibiotics and we obtained a CT scan to check for an enterocutaneous fistula .
We discontinued his Flagyl on that day .
We contacted the patient &apos;s primary care physician , Dr. Aslinke ______ , regarding his cardiac medication management .
We agreed that he should resume his atenolol .
He was started on 2.5 mg PO qd .
He was continued on his dressing changes .
We changed the dressings tid instead of bid for continued drainage .
The CT scan that was obtained on 3/10/02 demonstrated no connection between bowel and the wound .
The drainage had been decreasing and the patient continued to be afebrile .
On the following day , 3/11/02 , a fistulogram was obtained which was negative for a fistula from the bowel to the wound .
The patient was continued on ampicillin and Gentamicin .
Her remained afebrile with stable vital signs .
He was comfortable and erythema continued to decrease with improvemeent in the appearance of the wound .
In consultation with Infectious Disease , it was agreed to discharge the patient on Augmentin for coverage .
We obtained sensitivities of his wound bacteria .
His intravenous antibiotics were discontinued .
He remaineda febrile with daily improvement in the appearance of his wound .
On hospital day 7 , the patient remained afebrile with stable vital signs .
His wound demonstrated no erythema with moderate dark drainage .
The patient will be discharged with WH and continued dressing changes bid .
