ADMISSION DATE :
06/29/92
DISCHARGE DATE :
07/27/92
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
Mr. Villesatelkscurb is a fifty year old black gentleman with a long history of hepatitis C , believed to be contracted during transfusions in a previous trauma .
The patient had recently prior to this admission , had a rise in his alpha feta protein and a biopsy of his liver had shown hepatocellular carcinoma .
The patient was admitted for liver transplant workup and to await liver transplant .
PAST MEDICAL and
SURGICAL HISTORY :
Significant for motor vehicle accident in 1966 , requiring exploratory laparotomy and splenectomy , tonsillectomy as a child , pneumonia in the past , hepatitis C and recent diagnosis of hepatocellular carcinoma .
ADVERSE DRUG REACTIONS :
no known drug allergies .
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION :
On admission medications included Lasix and iron .
HOSPITAL COURSE :
Preoperatively , the patient underwent chemo-embolization for his hepatocellular carcinoma .
The remainder of his preoperative course was benign .
On July 15 , 1992 , a liver became available , and the patient underwent hepatectomy and orthotopic liver transplant .
His operation was complicated by severe coagulopathy requiring fifty-nine units of packed red blood cells , 64 units of FFP and 34 units of platelets .
Postoperatively , the patient continued to have a coagulopathy requiring re-exploration on postoperatively day 2 , with findings only of hematoma and no active bleeding .
Initially , the patient did well in the Intensive Care Unit , mentally alert , and oriented , however , he continued to be coagulopathic and was requiring large amounts of blood and FFP transfusions , with a resultant pulmonary edema .
He developed renal failure felt to be ATN secondary to ischemia of his kidneys .
The patient remained intubated in the Intensive Care Unit for twelve days prior to his death .
He had daily transfusions of FFP and blood , and continued coagulopathy .
He also developed thrombocytopenia , requiring persistent platelet transfusions on a daily basis .
His immunosuppression was OKT3 and Solu Medrol , and he underwent hemodialysis and ultra filtration to remove fluid .
While in the ICU he developed seizures , requiring large amounts of intravenous Valium to break his seizures , and he was maintained on Tegretol and Dilantin .
However , he became progressively more mentally obtunded .
During the seizure , he bit his tongue , resulting in a large bleed from his tongue , which was sutured by the ENT Service , however , his continued coagulopathy resulted in bleeding from his nasopharynx , which could never be identified , and also upper gastrointestinal bleeding .
Endoscopy never revealed specific sources of bleeding , although he appeared to have a diffuse duodenitis .
He was started on Pitressin to try to control the gastrointestinal bleeding , but he continued to have severe bleeding , and became progressively hypotensive , with eventual bradycardia and cardiac arrest .
He was pronounced dead at 3:49 PM on July 27 , 1992 .
