ADMISSION DATE :
08/05/98
DISCHARGE DATE :
08/07/98
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
Miss Siehjesc is an 85-year-old woman with a past medical history significant for Parkinson 's Disease of ten years duration , supraventricular tachycardia , and a history of colon carcinoma , who was in her usual state of health until 11:30 on the morning of admission when she felt the acute on set of 5 out of 10 right sided chest pain with radiation to her sternum but not to her neck or arms or back .
It was not relieved by 2 sublingual nitroglycerins .
She did state that she experienced some shortness of breath ( her usual anginal equivalent ) and believes she did experience some lightheadedness as well , but denies blacking out or falling .
While the pain was initially intermittent , it became steady at about 1:00 p.m. at which time she presented to the Tecal Galecounxopt Community Hospital Emergency Room and following this experience a spontaneous remission of her right sided pain .
Since that time she has experience occasional episodes of the same focal chest pain but finds that it spontaneously remits .
It is made better by direct pressure to the point and she recalls no factors which worsened it .
She is admitted to rule out myocardial infarction .
HOSPITAL COURSE AND TREATMENT :
The patient proceeded to rule out formyocardial infarction by enzymes .
Additionally , the patient underwent a exercise stress test on 8/6/98 with a heart rate proceeding from 76 to 93 beats per minute .
There were no electrocardiogram changes noted and there were no arrhythmias noted as well .
During the test the patient experienced no chest pressure or pain or dyspnea and nuclear medical imaging was without evidence of ischemia .
The patient was in this fashion discharged from the service to continue on her current medications and to call in oneweek to follow up with Dr. Sterpbreutzsterp and Cardiology .
The patient already had a follow up appointment with Dr. Sterpbreutzsterp in three weeks , and was instructed to keep that appointment .
