ADMISSION DATE : 
12/25/96 
DISCHARGE DATE : 
12/29/96 
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS : 
Ms. Lenkpruskihkooglekih is a 63-year-old lady with a history of frequent premature ventricular contractions and infrequent short runs of non-sustained ventricular tachycardia ( one four-beat run ) in 1991 , for which several antiarrhythmic agents including Propranolol , Quinidine , Procainamide , Tenormin , Norpace , Corgard , and Flecainide were used , but were stopped because of intolerance . 
At that time , she had clear coronary arteries on coronary angiography and an ejection fraction greater than 50% . 
She did well off antiarrhythmic agents until October of this year when she was noted to have atrial fibrillation with a rapid ventricular rate after several days of decreased exercise tolerance . 
She was started on Coumadin and had a failed attempt at DC electrical cardioversion on 11/16/96 . 
She has been on Coumadin since and has continued to have occasional palpitations and mild shortness of breath . 
HOSPITAL COURSE AND TREATMENT : 
The patient was started on Propafenone 300 mg three times a day and underwent an attempt at electrical cardioversion after seven doses of this . 
This failed , despite one shock at 300 joules and two shocks at 360 joules . 
The Propafenone was stopped , and the patient was changed to Amiodarone 400 mg t.i.d. , which was continued for two days . 
The patient was discharged to home on Amiodarone 200 mg daily on 12/29/96 . 
An electrocardiogram showed no evidence of QT prolongation prior to discharge , and pulmonary function tests will be performed before the patient goes home today . 
The patient will follow up with Dr. Ther Ludzjesc at Shiekeu Hospital Medical Centers in Connecticut . 
In addition , she will return to this hospital in early February for repeat attempt at electrical cardioversion on Amiodarone . 
She will continue her Coumadin until then and arrangements for her readmission can be made through Dr. Iceca Rhaltkaaispehbreun 's office here . 
MEDICATIONS : 
Other than the addition of Amiodarone 200 mg daily , will be the same as her admission medications . 
STA BODEJOVE , M.D. 
