Admission Date :
2015-09-30
Discharge Date :
2015-10-02
Service :
MEDICAL ICU
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
This is a 57-year-old nursing home resident female , who had been in her usual state of health until about three weeks ago when the daughter noted she was sleeping more .
Per record , she has had multiple episodes in the last week of changes in mental status .
EMTs called many times .
The patient would awake prior to arrival and not need transfer .
The patient was seen at the Leonard Morse/Metrowest Medical Center on 09-28 .
No localizing etiology of delta MS .
That evening she was unresponsive and the patient was brought to Amesbury Hospital Hospital .
There her oxygen she was sating 65% on room air , increased to 98% with a nonrebreather mask .
There an ABG was done which showed an ABG of 7.42 , 62 , and 55 .
She had a head CT that was negative .
Chest x-ray that was questionable left lower lobe infiltrate .
Lumbar puncture was performed and the micro cultures are still pending .
She was seen by Psychiatry at the outside hospital , but noted there was no psychoses , but delirium .
The patient 's mental status waxed and waned there .
She also had a K of 6.0 and given 30 of Kayexalate , 5 of Haldol , 2 mg of Ativan given for
agitation , and 2 mg of ceftriaxone was given for a temperature of 101.3 with a concern for meningitis as a LP was done prior .
Patient was transferred to the Kindred Hospital Melendez the patient 's primary care provider was here .
She is currently being seen by Addison Gilbert Hospital Group .
On arrival to Mass. Eye & Ear Infirmary , she was unresponsive with an oxygen saturation of 72% on 6 liters .
She was placed on 50% vent mask , which improved her oxygenation to 97% .
Patient was placed on BiPAP .
Original ABG here before BiPAP was 7.19 , 102 , and 92 .
After being placed on BiPAP , her blood pressure decreased to the 80s .
She responded to 1 liter of IV fluids , normal saline and blood pressure remained stable .
Patient had peripheral IV x1 placed and right femoral line placed in the Matthew .
When laying flat , her sats decreased to 50% on 30% FIO2 , PEEP of 10 , and pressure support of 5 .
Her ABG at the time was 7.24 , 91 , and 38 .
Once the patient sat up , her sats improved and her airway was no longer obstructed .
After a history on BiPAP about a half an hour , her ABG was 7.29 , 79 , and 106 on 30% pressure support of 5 and PEEP of 10 .
Patient was intermittently awaking .
She denied any pain and was not answering questions at the time .
HOSPITAL COURSE :
1. Hypercarbic respiratory failure issues :
The patient presented with changes in mental status , pCO2 of 100 , pH of 7.19 , decreasing sats on arrival likely element of obstructive-sleep apnea .
She was monitored overnight .
She had admitted to the CMED and had multiple episodes of apnea throughout the night .
She was placed on pressure support , which improved her saturations and decreased her hypercarbia .
Patient improved that her mental status with improvement of her oxygenation and ventilation as well as for correction of her respiratory acidosis .
Patient was eventually placed on BiPAP on hospital day three , on the date prior to discharge of BiPAP settings of 12/8/5 liters of oxygen with saturations of 96% with a gas of 7.38 , 67 , and 91 with an aim of a goal pCO2 of 67 .
She only had one episode of apnea on the day prior to discharge .
2. Delta MS/mental status issues :
Most likely her waxing and waning mental status and hypercarbia/hypoxia compounded by infection of pneumonia and UTI .
With improvements of her ventilation and oxygenation and treatment with levofloxacin of her UTI and pneumonia , her mental status greatly improved on hospital day two without further waxing and waning .
Her daughters came by and visited her , and reported that she was at her baseline mental status on the day prior to discharge .
B12 , folate , RPR were all sent that were unremarkable as causes for delta MS .
We are awaiting results of the lumbar puncture from the outside hospital , but on hospital day two .
Those cultures are still pending at the time .
Patient was also given multivites .
3. Fever issues :
The patient initially presented with T max of 101.3 at outside hospital with increasing white blood cell counts and a positive urinalysis .
A chest x-ray with bilateral patchy infiltrates likely pneumonia and UTI .
Upon calling the outside hospital , the urine was growing out Klebsiella , and patient was given a 10 day course of levofloxacin to cover both the pneumonia and UTI .
Blood cultures and urine cultures are still pending at this hospital visit and the CSF fluid from Whitter Rehabilitation Hospital needs to be further evaluated .
Patient on the day of discharge was afebrile with a decreasing white count x48 hours .
4. Acute renal failure issues :
Creatinine initially presented at 1.3 .
Patient is known to have a baseline of 1.0 , most likely hypovolemia and prerenal .
A FENa was sent , was 0.3% .
Patient was gently hydrated and IV fluids started up on a p.o. diet regimen .
On hospital day two , her creatinine returned to 0.8 , and she remained with a creatinine of 0.8 for the remainder of her hospital stay .
Patient's K was followed , and trended back down to normal on the day of discharge at 3.9 .
5. Elevated transaminases :
Patient had no right upper quadrant pain .
Stewart sign was negative .
A right upper quadrant ultrasound was performed that showed no hepatic or biliary pathology likely due to acute phase stress changes given the fact that she had no clinical symptoms .
There is no need to followup these transaminases .
6. Congestive heart failure history :
Patient was stable without evidence of CHF on chest x-ray .
Followed her sats likely due to obstructive-sleep apnea and hypoventilation .
Patient was restarted on her beta blocker and .......- receptor blocker on hospital day two given that her creatinine had stabilized .
Patient had no further cardiac issues at this time .
She was on telemetry without any episodes of any rhythm abnormalities .
7. CMED CCU :
The patient had some vaginal bleeding x2 days .
Patient had a history of fibroids during this hospitalization .
Followed her examination .
Her hematocrit remained stable throughout this course .
Patient is strongly encouraged to followup with her outside primary care provider to followup for the vaginal bleeding given her history of fibroids and question metaplasia of the endometrium .
8. Heme :
Her hematocrit remained stable .
She had a history of nucleated RBCs likely secondary to stress and hypoxia during this admission .
Hemolysis laboratories were negative .
Patient was restarted on her iron supplementation .
Reticulocyte count was performed that was negative .
9. FEN :
She was NPO with a decrease in her mental status .
We slowly advanced her diet as her mental status improved and repleted her electrolytes , and started on her p.o. medications on hospital day two .
10. Diabetes :
Patient had q.i.d. fingersticks with a Humalog sliding scale and NPH doses were cut in half while she was NPO , and they were brought back to her normal doses on the day of discharge with a full diet .
11. Code status :
Full .
Two daughters came by and requested to be health care proxies as patient approved .
Documentation is in her medical chart .
12. Prophylaxis :
The patient was on subQ Heparin for DVT and ranitidine for GI prophylaxis .
DISPOSITION:
The patient is to be discharged today to Lahey Clinic - North Shore Hospital for long-term pulmonary ........ therapy and further evaluation of her obstructive-sleep apnea .
