Admission Date :
2017-05-14
Discharge Date :
2017-06-26
Service :
CMED CCU
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
Jadiara Harrison is twin #1 born to a 17 year-old primiparous mother at 31 weeks gestation .
Mother was admitted to the Nantucket Cottage Hospital from Lawrence General Hospital Hospital on 05-01 with cervical effacement and preterm labor .
She was treated with magnesium sulfate .
She had previously been admitted here at the 24th week after a motor vehicle accident .She was treated with tocolysis and betamethasone at that time .
Due to progressing labor and presentation of twins , delivery was by Cesarean section .
Prenatal screens were notable for blood type 0 positive , antibody negative , hepatitis B surface antigen negative , RPR nonreactive .
Rubella status was not documented .
Group B strep status was unknown .
Infant emerged from the breech position .
She was vigorous .
She was given blow-by oxygen and stimulation .
Her Apgars were 7 at 1 minute and 9 at 5 minutes .
She was brought to the CMED CSRU for further evaluation .
HOSPITAL COURSE :
Respiratory :
On admission , infant did not require supplemental oxygen or respiratory support .
Since that time , Jadiara has always been in room air without requiring supplemental oxygen .
She was noted to have apnea of prematurity , treated with caffeine until 2017-06-04 .
Since that time , she has had very rare spells , with none for over one week by the time of discharge .
Cardiovascular :
She was hemodynamically stable upon admission with normal blood pressures and heart rate .
On day of life 15 , she was noted to have a murmur , eventually prompting evaluation by ECHO .
The ECHO revealed an anomalous left coronary , with one end entering the right ventricular outflow tract and the other end not clearly defined .
It was unable to be delineated whether this represented an anomalous left coronary artery arising from the pulmonary artery ( LCAPA ) or a left coronary artery fistula to the pulmonar artery .
The right coronary was prominent , and there appeared to be coronary artery collateral vessels in the posterior apical myocardium .
A small apical muscular VSD was also noted .
Several additional ECHOs were performed , including an ECHO in the cardiology department at HealthSouth Rehab Hospital of Western Mass ., but the anatomy of the left coronary artery could not be further defined .
Due to the risks of coronary ischemia if this represented an LCAPA , the infant was followed with regular ECHOs and EKGs during the remainder of hospitalization , with no evidence of ischemia , valvular regurgitation , or compromised ventricular function .
She will be continued to be followed closely by cardiology as an outpatient , with likely plans for cardiac catheterization and surgical repair when she grows to 3.5 to 4 kg .
Fluids , electrolytes and nutrition :
The infant was initially maintained on IVF , with introduction of enteral feeds on day of life 2 .
She was advanced to full volume enteral feeds by day of life 7 , and then to a maximum caloric density of 28 cals / oz .
Oral feedings were introduced as tolerated .
By the time of discharge , infant is feedign BM or enfamil 24 cals / oz PO ad lib , with adequate intake and adequate weight gain .
Last nutrition labs were on 06-20 with AP of 208 , Ca 10.8 , and Phos 7.4.
Gastrointestinal :
The infant required phototherapy for hyperbilirubinemia through day of life 7 , with peak bilirubin of 7 / 0.3 on day of life 3 , and last bilirubin of 4.9 / 0.3 on day of life 9 .
Hematologic / Infectious disease :
CBC and blood culture were obtained upon admission revealing a white blood cell count of 9.0 with 25 polys and 0 bands ; hematocrit was 46.9% and platelets of 222,000 .
Baby received 48 hours of Ampicillin and Gentamycin with negative cultures and a stable clinical course .
Infant was treated with supplemental iron , and did not receive any blood transfusions .
Last Hct was 30.6 on 06-20 with a reticulocyte count of 6.5%.
Neurologic :
Baby has been appropriate for gestational age .
Social :
Mother is 17 years old , and has been accompanied on the majority of her visits by her parents , both of whom are students .
The infant 's maternal grandparents have been very involved in her care .
Sensory :
Initial opthalmologic exam on 06-05 revealed immature retinas in zone 3 , and repeat exam on 06-26 revealed mature retinas bilaterally .
Infant passed hearing screen prior to discharge .
