Admission Date :
2016-03-18
Discharge Date :
2016-04-01
Service : 
SURGERY
History of Present Illness :
_Mr. Morton is a 86 yo male transferred from Kindred Park View Specialty Hospital of Springfield-Sample .
He developed right foot pain the Sunday prior to admission and was seen by his Podiatrist , who diagnosed him with gout .
He was given colchicine and prednisone .
Mr. Morton then developed more pain and warmth to his right foot later in the week and presented to the Youville Hospital - Woody Monica .
At this hospital he underwent an I&D ( 03-17 ) of a right foot infection and subsequently underwent 
re-exploration ( 03-18 ) for developing necrotizing fascitis .
He was transferred to Hallmark Health System for further care .
Brief Hospital Course :
Mr. Morton was admitted to the TSICU .
He was placed on Penicillin G , Clindamycin , for empiric coverage of his wound , with Group A strep growth from the New England Baptist Hospital-Bryce cultures .
He was transferred to the floor on HD#2 .
He continued to undergo BID dressing changes .
Plastic surgery was asked to evaluate the patient .
Per their recommendations , silvadine was applied to the tendons to prevent dessication .
Vascular surgery was also asked to evaluate the patient 's right lower extremity blood flow .
An angiogram on HD#4 showed severe tibial disease and moderate SFA disease , no DP artery was seen .
The vascular team recommended a femoral-peroneal bypass for revascularization and performed this operation on HD#5 .
He tolerated the procedure well , please see Dr. Allgood Operative Note for detail .
On POD#1 , Mr. Morton received 2 units of pRBCs for post-op anemia ( Hct 25 ).
Mr. Morton continued to be followed by Infectious Disease , whose recommendations were to complete a 01-28 week course of Penicillin G and Clindamycin after the foot was completely debrided and the skin flaps completed .
His wound continued to heal well and by POD #6 a VAC dressing was placed .
He received a PICC on POD#7 for his long-term antibiotic therapy .
At the time of discharge , Mr. Morton had good pain control , was tolerating a regular diet , had a well-healing wound treated with a VAC dressing , and was to continue his IV PCN G and Clindamycin .
He was discharged to a rehab facility in fair condition .
