Admission Date :
2016-07-18
Discharge Date :
2016-07-21
Service :
MEDICINE
History of Present Illness :
46 - yo-man w/ active cocaine use presents w/ LE edema .
10 days ago , he developed b/l LE edema that has gotten progressively worse until now .
Three days ago , he developed dyspnea on exertion when climbing stairs , assoc w/ 2-pillow orthopnea and PND .
He denies any recent chest pain , palpitations , headache , confusion , weakness , numbness , abd pain , or hematuria .
No recent viral syndromes or URI s.
He does admit to cocaine use last night .
Today , his wife convinced him to present to the Deanna for evaluation .
In the Deanna , his BP was 230/170 .
BNP was elevated at 7500 .
CXR revealed evidence of cardiomegaly and pulm edema .
He was treated w/ ASA 325 mg , lasix 10 mg IV , and hydralazine 10 mg IV x 2 .
He responded well to lasix w/ good UOP , but diastolic BP remained elevated at 170 , prompting initiation of nitroprusside gtt .
He is now admitted to the CCU for further care .
Brief Hospital Course :
46 - yo-man w/ cocaine abuse presents w/ LE edema and DOE likely from diastolic heart failure in the setting of cocaine use complicated by hypertensive urgency .
Hypertensive urgency :
BP 230/170 on presentation , most likely from chronic HTN exacerbated by cocaine use .
No signs of end-organ damage at present except for elevated creatinine , which is more likely a chronic problem .
The patient was started on labetalol and Lisinopril .
His blood pressure was taken down from 230 systolic to approx 160 systolic / 100 diastolic on discharge .
His lower extremity edema improved with diuresis .
An echo performed on admission showed an LF EF of 25% .
It is hoped with good blood pressure control and use of an ACE-I with follow up in addition to cocaine abstaining will improved his cardiac function .
Renal Failure : creatinine on admission was 1.6 Likely acute hypertensive nephropathy plus probalbe long-standing hypertensive disease .
discharged on ACE-I .
Substance Use : Social work saw patient and counceled him regarding substance abuse .
Discharged with Margaret Hallock , cardiology follow up as well as scheduled appointment with a new PCP @ Newton Health Center .
