Admission Date :
2016-04-05
Discharge Date :
2016-04-11
Service :
Cardiothoracic Surgery
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
This is a 67 - year-old male with a history of high cholesterol who was in his usual state of health until 2016-04-03 .
He was raking leaves on 04-02 and then developed episodes of mid chest pain and burning which radiated to the left arm .
That night he reportedly stopped breathing and was unresponsive .
His wife gave him mouth-to-mouth resuscitation and he regained consciousness .
He presented to an outside hospital with an acute inferior myocardial infarction and was treated with thrombolytic therapy .
His troponin was 20 and he had EKG changes .
He underwent catheterization on 2016-04-05 which revealed a left ventricular ejection fraction of 50% , no mitral regurgitation , insufficiency or hypokinesis .
Left main coronary artery was narrowed 50-60% , left anterior descending coronary artery 70% proximally , right coronary artery dominant diseased up to 90% proximally in the midportion , 70% distally .
The left circumflex coronary artery was 50% proximally , 90% obtuse marginal #3 .
HOSPITAL COURSE :
The patient was admitted to the hospital and on 2016-04-06 the patient underwent coronary artery bypass grafting x 4 with left internal mammary artery to the left anterior descending coronary artery , saphenous vein graft to the diagonal , saphenous vein graft to obtuse marginal , saphenous vein graft to right coronary artery , posterior descending coronary artery .
The patient appeared to have tolerated the procedure and was transferred to the cardiac intensive care unit for postoperative management .
He was started on beta blockers .
The patient had pacing wires and chest tubes in place , both of which over the course of his stay were removed successfully .
The patient did well postoperatively and was transported to the regular cardiac surgery floor where he tolerated a regular diet , ambulated well , did well with his activities of daily living .
He was seen by physical therapy and cleared .
They requested that he follow up in three to five weeks for endurance training , however then physical therapy followed him a number of times afterward and decided that he was in good condition and did not need further physical therapy .
On 2016-04-11 the patient was in good condition and he is being discharged on a regular heart-healthy diet .
He may observe regular activity although he should avoid strenuous activity and should not drive while on pain medications .
He should follow up with Dr. Dushaj in four weeks .
He should follow up with his cardiologist in two to three weeks and he should follow up with his primary care physician in one to two weeks .
