ADMISSION DATE :
4/14/94
DISCHARGE DATE :
4/20/94
DISCHARGE DATE :
4/20/94
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
Mr. Le is a seventy three year old male who presents to the Fairm of Ijordcompmac Hospital , following a self inflicted gunshot wound to the head .
Mr. Le was found in bed with a 32 caliber revolver at his side .
The patient was apparently alone at home , his neighbors heard a single shot , and the paramedics were called .
Upon arrival , they found the patient in bed , with notes nearby , listing his funeral home preferences and information on his next of kin .
The patient indicates that his neighbors were making excessive noise upstairs from his dwelling , and he found it unbearable .
He therefore decided to take his life with a gun which he had found in the house .
Apparently , the gun belonged to his father .
On further questioning , the patient described that his father passed away approximately forty to fifty years prior to his admission , and the gun was found in a box in their home .
The patient expressed concern that he had several utility bills that he was unable to pay .
The patient &apos;s sister died eight years prior to the patient &apos;s admission of leukemia , and he otherwise has no next of kin with the exception of one brother in Washington , with whom his relationship is tenuous .
On initial questioning , however , the patient denies any recent losses .
On admission , the patient denies any suicidal or homicidal ideation .
HOSPITAL COURSE :
The patient was admitted to the Fairm of Ijordcompmac Hospital , on the Neurological Surgery Service of Lupevickette L. Ca , M.D.
Prior to his admission , the patient &apos;s gunshot wound was sutured close in the emergency room .
The patient was placed on suicide precautions , and was hydrated with an infusion of intravenous fluid .
The patient was seen in consultation by the Psychiatry Service , who began a battery of testing , which continues at the time of discharge .
The Consulting Psychiatrist recommended a minimum of 2 point restraints at all times , and recommended the patient be monitored by a sitter .
Allowing the patient to ambulate was not recommended .
From a medical standpoint , the patient did well .
He was initially admitted to the Neurological Intensive Care Unit where he was closely monitored during the first two days of his hospitalization .
The chief obstacle was bringing his blood pressure under control and this was ultimately achieved with a combination of Captopril and Nifedipine .
After his blood pressure had stabilized , the patient was transferred to the Neurology Ward .
Close monitoring demonstrated his blood pressure to be stable and within an acceptable rang on his dosage regimen .
The Psychiatry Service followed up extensively with the patient , and his Psychiatric progress is detailed in the Psychiatry transfer note .
By the 7th hospital day , the patient was medically stable .
He had undergone full Psychiatric evaluation , and was prepared for transfer to a Psychiatric Hospital .
Therefore , because of his need for intense psychiatric care , the patient is discharged to the Vo Black Doylestrictshore Ft. Clinics Medical Center on the 7th hospital day .
