ADMISSION DATE :
08-27-92
DISCHARGE DATE :
09-08-92
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
The patient is a 75 year old Hispanic male with insulin dependent diabetes mellitus , status post a right above-knee amputation about five years ago , who reportedly approximately four months ago , he developed a small ulceration in the left great toe , which progressively worsened .
He was seen by a doctor in Arizona and treated with dressing changes and debridement until approximately six weeks ago , when antibiotics were started with Ciprofloxacin .
The patient was seen and it was suggested that he should have an amputation and he decided to come to Fairm of Ijordcompmac Hospital for further evaluation .
HOSPITAL COURSE :
The patient was admitted for intravenous antibiotics and a question of evaluation of circulation to the left great toe and also possible debridement and possibly a toe amputation .
The patient had the following radiological studies :
08-27-92 , left foot film , correlation , patient consistent with osteomyelitis involving the first digit and possibly the second digit of the left foot .
The chest X-ray reveals no evidence of acute disease .
The patient had lower extremity arterial non-invasive study which showed good arterial hemodynamics of the left lower extremity , perfusion to the TM level , but there was evidence of diabetic small vessel disease and spasm of his digits .
The arterial circulation is adequate for healing of his left great toe ulcer , noncompressible left thigh and calf pressures highly calcified arterial system .
On 09-03-92 , patient underwent a left great toe buttontoe amputation under regional ankle block for chronic ulcer and osteomyelitis of the left great toe .
The patient tolerated the procedure well .
There were no complications during the procedure .
There was a small Penrose drain postoperatively that was placed intraoperatively and discontinued on approximately postoperative day number three .
The patient was preoperatively treated with about a seven day course of intravenous Unasyn and postoperatively treated for approximately four days of intravenous Unasyn .
The patient was discharged home in stable condition on postoperative day number five , without any complications .
The incision from buttontoe amputation of the left foot healing well , without any further complications .
FOLLOWUP :
The patient is to follow up in clinic .
