Admission Date :
2013-10-21
Discharge Date :
2013-10-31
Service :
CARDIOTHORACIC
History of Present Illness :
This is an 85 year old female with prior history of non-hodgkins lymphoma , s/p Cytoxan in 2003 a with recurrence in 2009 .
Follow up examinations have found a suspicious left lower lobe finding .
Cardiac workup prior to left lower lobe resection led to cardiac catheterization which found severe three vessel disease with 04-05+ mitral regurgitation .
She now present for surgical intervention .
Brief Hospital Course :
Mrs. Mandelbaum was admitted and underwent three vessel coronary artery bypass grafting by Dr. Larry Mckinney .
Of note , intraoperative transesophageal echocardiogram evaluation showed only mild mitral regurgitation , so no repair/replacement was indicated .
Following the operation , she was brought to the CSRU .
On postoperative day one , she was noted to be largely unresponsive with left hemiparesis .
Restlessness with body tremors were also noted .
A stat MRI was notable for multiple abnormal foci consistent with systemic emboli .
These were found in the right cerebellar , occipital and anterior parietal lobes .
The neurology service was consulted and attributed these findings to cholesterol emboli .
Due to seizure activity , Dilantin was started .
Anticoagulation was not recommended .
Over the next several days , her neurological status slowly improved .
She was eventually extubated without incident .
She went on to experience paroxysmal atrial fibrillation which was initially treated with intravenous Amiodarone .
She concomitantly had loose stools which were C. diff negative .
Her clinical status stablized and she transferred to the step down unit on postoperative day six .
She remained mostly in a normal sinus rhythm and transitioned to oral Amiodarone which will need to continue for three months postop .
She tolerated beta blockade which was slowly advanced as tolerated .
She worked daily with physical and occupational therapy .
Her neurological status continued to improve .
Acyclovir was eventually increased from her maintenance dose for a herpes zoster breakout on her right upper back .
In addition , she was empirically started on Flagyl for persistent diarrhea ( despite negative C. diff cultures ) , however she developed an additional rash on her buttocks after the first dose of flagyl , so the flagyl was discontinued .
She developed a urinary tract infection for which she was started on Bactrim .
A foley catheter was inserted given her mutiple episodes of incontinence that were adding to skin irritation .
On insertion she was found to be retaining 1400 cc of urine , so the foley catheter was left in .
She continued to make clinical improvements and was cleared for discharge to rehab on postoperative day 10 .
