Admission Date :
2017-07-12
Discharge Date :
2017-07-17
Service :
MEDICINE
History of Present Illness :
57 y/o F with multiple medical problems including polyendocrine deficiency comprised of adrenal insufficiency , DM , premature ovarian failure , hypoparathyroidism , addison 's disease and also breast CA and depression with multiple suicide attempts in the past who originally presented s/p tylenol with codeine overdose and hypotension , was intubated and admitted to the FICU .
She was eventually stabilized and transfered out of the ICU to the medical Mary Lane Hospital .
Subsequently , she was transfered to the psychiatric Mary Lane Hospital in Boston Medical Center 4 for further psychiatric w/u .
This morning , 2017-07-12 , Ms. Gallegos King feeling weaker than usual .
She noted that she had increased pain in her lower back , which she attributed to her arthritis .
She ate a normal breakfast of cereal and milk .
Later that am , she stood from her wheelchair , had a prodrome of LH and then reports LOC and fall .
She denies any tunnel vision , darkened vision , or focal weakness this morning .
No bowel / bladder incont , no aura , no postictal state .
She does not recall falling , but does recall waking up with people surrounding her .
During the fall she hit her nose and her R knee .
She does not recall hitting her head .
She does not describe decreased PO intake from her norm this morning , but did feel dehydrated at the time of her fall .
LOC was unwitnessed .
Early this morning before breakfast her BS was reportedly 145 , and after LOC , her BS was reportedly 207 .
She reports that her BP was read at 60/48 after her fall .
Her systolic BP measurements have been running around 100-110 over the past few weeks .
Ms. Cassata has a history of " passing out " in August of 2004 , ( ? 7 hours ) , and reports that this episode did not feel similar .
ROS :
She denies any recent nausea , but had an episode of vomiting last week .
She denies any pain with urination or incontinence .
She also denies any recent cough , chest pain , chest palpitations , heart racing .
She reports 2 nights with soaking NS .
Denies subj / obj fevers or chills .
She describes her mood as depressed , however she denies suicidal ideation at this time .
She reports that she took all her medications as usual this morning , with no changes .
Brief Hospital Course :
BRIEF OVERVIEW :
57 yo F with h/o polyglandular autoimmune syndrome initially admitted in May to FICU for suicide overdose then transferred to Whittier Rehab Hospital 4 for depression , who was transferred to the medical floor for a syncopal episode and hypotension to 60 systolic that returned to baseline with 2.5L IVF who was subsequently transferred to the CMED CSRU for a recurrent episode of hypotension , fevers and concern for sepsis .
Initially when she arrived to the floor she was afebrile , normotensive without signs of orthostasis , had a negative UA , a clear chest xray and no signs / symptoms of a fever .
She was slightly tachycardic .
She was initially not started on antibiotics .
She was given a standing IVF order .
Overnight she became febrile to 102.3 , increasingly tachycardic to 125 , and hypotensive to 80 systolic .
She was started on stress dose steroids and levo , flagyl , and vanco .
She was given 4L of fluid boluses and transfered to the CMED CSRU .
In the CMED CSRU , repeated attempts to place lines were unsuccessful .
The above treatments were continued .
Urine cultures returned with 10-100,000 organisms coag negative staph .
Blood cultures remained negative .
Vital signs stabilized and she was transfered back to the medical floor after 2 days in the ICU .
Stress dose steroids were planned for a 7 day course , antibiotics were peeled back to levofloxacin alone , and a R hip film revealed no loosening nor inflammation .
Echo showed normal function , trace AR , and no MR .
She had a normal RUQ US , as well .
On the floor the patient remained stable hemodynamically without recurrent fever and was stable for transfer back to Franciscan Children 's Hospital & Rehab Center 4 .
At the time of discharge , her potassium had been low despite repletion , Na was elevated , as was blood pressure .
On recommendation from endocrine , her fludrocortisone was decreased from 0.2 to 0.1 ( higher than required doses of fludrocort can cause these symptoms . ) .
1. Hypotension :
Patient presented after episode of hypotension and syncope on Mass. Mental Health Center 5 .
Initially it was felt that this was a result of poor PO intake .
She was afebrile without orthostatic vital signs nor hypotension .
She had no symptoms of infectious source , normal UA , normal chest xray , and no symptoms nor signs of injury after her fall with syncope .
Neuro exam was normal .
Subsequently overnight , she developed a fever to 102.3 and recurrent hypotension in the setting of fevers and tachycardia that was concerning for an infectious source .
She still had no localizing signs of infection and culture data was negative to be negative .
RUQ US was ordered and returned without signs of infection later .
She was started on stress dose steroids .
She had cultures drawn , was given tylenol ( tylenol screen prior to this dose was negative , as was a urine tox ) , was started on levofloxacin , metronidazole , and vancomycin to cover emperically for hospital aquired pneumonia , GI sources , and a potential hip infection .
Her transaminases were slightly elevated , which was later attributed to shock liver as a result of her period of hypotension .
Lipase and amylase remained normal .
In the ICU she also received an echo that revealed normal function and little valvular disease ( she has two loud systolic murmurs on exam ) , and a hip film revealing no inflammation nor loosening .
Urine culture twice grew 10-100,000 coag negative staph .
A line could not be placed for technical reasons , however after 4L NS on the floor and 01-30 more in the ICU via peripheral IV 's she was stable .
She remained hemodynamically stable with good UOP in the setting of being started on abx and stress dose steroids .
The steroids were thought to have helped significantly in in the setting of Addison 's with possibely superimposed infection .
The patient was planned for a 7 day course of stress dose steroids followed by a return to her basal predinisone / fludrocortisone dose .
2. Elevated LFTs :
LFTs wre elevated at presentation .
Initially the differential was thought to include shock liver from hypotension , hepatitis , cholangitis or choledocholithiasis .
Hepatitis serologies were negative and the pt was eventually felt to have had shock liver from her hypotensive episode as the transaminitis resolved over time .
3. Hypoparathyroidism :
This is a chronic problem .
calcium levels were followed with a goal to keep them around 8.0 by continuing Calcium carbonate , calcitriol .
The pt required calcium gluconate x1 the day prior to discharge .
Per endocrine at the time of discharge , the pt may need an increase in calcium PO , but at this time they recommended no change .
It will need to be monitored over time .
4. Addison 's- The patient is on basal prednisone / fludrocortisone .
These were initially continued as above and later , when she became hypotensive and febrile , stress dose steroids were started and planned for a 7 day course followed by a return to her prior dose of prednisone .
At the time of discharge , her potassium had been low despite repletion ,
Na was elevated , as was blood pressure .
On recommendation from endocrine , her fludrocortisone was decreased from 0.2 to 0.1 ( higher than required doses of fludrocort can cause these symptoms. ) .
5. DM :
Light followed the patient .
She was continued on her prior dose of steroids with sliding scale per patient using a 1:15 carb counting scheme with a 1:30 correction factor .
On the day of discharge her glargine was decreased by one unit because her glucose remained somewhat low in the mornings .
6. R Hip pain :
Later in her hospital course , the pt complained of hip pain .
A R hip film was negative for pathology or failure of her hip replacement .
Pain was controlled with tylenol and the pt was reassured .
PT was consulted .
The pt uses a wheelchair often at baseline due to pain from arthritis .
7. Depression :
The pt was being treated at Mediplex Rehab Hospital 4 for suicidal ideation and a suicide attempt on original admission with tylenol and oxycodone .
She had planned this attempt carefully without the knowledge of those close to her and very much expected her attempt to work .
She had been depressed for some time but her loved ones were very surprised at her attempt .
She remained very depressed at her inpatient admission and refractory to treatment .
One day prior to her transfer to the medical floor she was sectioned to initiate ECT , which she had previously refused .
As a result , she was maintained on her ativan , mirtazapine , risperidone , duloxetine .
She did not exhibit psychotic symptoms .
She had a 1:1 sitter at all times .
She denied any suicidality but did endorse depression .
She denied HI , SI , and illusions / hallucinations .
Her mood appeared stable throughout her hospitalization .
She was followed by psychiatry in consultation while she was on the medical floor .
The patient did have heparin subcutaneously while on the medical floor and in the ICU .
She remained full code throughout the hospitalization .
As on prior hospitalization , her HCP was shared by Dianne White .
