Admission Date :
03/03/1999
Discharge Date :
03/08/1999
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
Mr. Prehekote is an 88-year-old Portuguese speaking only male who was diagnosed with adenocarcinoma of the prostate in 1998 .
He received transurethral resection of the prostate one year ago because of persistent urinary retention .
After that , he was on Lupron and Nilandron hormone therapy .
The patient was admitted on February 23 , 1999 to Eifro Medical Center because of failure to thrive and decreased hematocrit .
He was noted to have elevated BUN and creatinine .
BUN was 34 and creatinine was 2.6 , up from his baseline of 1.0 .
Prostate specific antigen increased from 77.9 to 88 , and the patient also had urinary incontinence and body weight loss .
Further evaluation of his renal failure showed that the patient has bilateral hydronephrosis , most likely obstructive uropathy due to prostate CA in the pelvic area .
Because of the increasing creatinine to 8.0 on February 28 , 1999 , a left nephrostomy tube was placed .
However after the procedure , the patient &apos;s hematocrit dropped to 24 and he was transfused two units of packed red blood cells .
His hematocrit increased to about 30 , but he continued to have hematuria and his renal function only improved very slowly .
He also received Kayexalate for hyperkalemia .
Due to the persistent blood in the urine , he was transferred from Eifro Medical Center to the Retelk County Medical Center for angiographic studies to rule out any vascular injuries .
The patient was transferred to Genearocktemp Ry Health on March 3 , 1999 .
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS :
The patient had constipation with dysuria , but no fever or chills .
No cough .
No chest pain .
No palpitations , history of epigastric pain and body weight loss .
No headache .
No bone pain .
HOSPITAL COURSE :
After admission , urology , nephrology as well as interventional radiology was consulted about the management of this patient .
The specialist concluded that because the patient &apos;s hematuria seemed to be stable and hematocrit to maintain at about 29-30 , there is no urgent need to do an arteriogram which may cause further damage to the patient &apos;s kidney .
Urology consultation thinks that cystoscopy would not add any benefit to the management and only would consider a right nephrostomy if renal function failed to improve .
After admission , the patient was treated conservatively to correct his electrolyte and metabolic acidosis .
He was given blood transfusion , two units when his hematocrit dropped to 29.4 .
After transfusion , the patient &apos;s hematocrit rose to 37.7 on the day of discharge .
The patient was also given sodium bicarbonate to correct his metabolic acidosis .
He continued to pass about 1500-2000 cc of urine a day and his renal function improved slowly with creatinine decreased to 4.2 on the day of discharge .
During this admission , the patient also developed atrial fibrillation with ventricular rate of about 70-80 .
CPK was tracked , but was totally normal .
No beta blockers were given .
A long discussion amongst the specialist , nephrology , urology , interventional radiology , primary oncology as well with the family lead to the conclusion that conservative management may give the patient more comfort than crisis treatment in this well advanced prostate CA .
Dr. Lucreamull discussed the patient &apos;s clinical status and overall situation with the patient &apos;s family and the family decided that Mr. Prehekote could return home with hospice .
The patient &apos;s primary care physician , Dr. Tomedankell Flowayles will manage the hospice issues .
The patient was discharged to home for hospice on March 8 , 1999 .
