Admission Date :
11/03/1993
Discharge Date :
11/07/1993
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
The patient is a 69-year-old male with multiple medical problems and known transfusion dependent secondary to myelodysplastic syndrome admitted with decreased hematocrit .
The patient has had multiple previous admissions for cardiac and pulmonary disease .
He has had chronic anemia since 1990 , but a bone marrow biopsy in 07-92 , was consistent with myelodysplastic syndrome .
Over the past several months , the patient has had increasing transfusing requirements .
His transfusions have been complicated by fluid overload and congestive heart failure , secondary to ischemia cardiomyopathy .
His last admission was 9-14-93 , for a transfusion without complications , and prior to admission the patient reports having several days of increasing weakness , dizziness and fatigue .
His wife says his hands and lips have been blue .
Apparently , he had had a low hematocrit as an outpatient and was checked two weeks prior to admission but was not given transfusion because the patient did not want to come in at that time .
Aside from the above , the patient had felt that baseline without fever and chills or change in chronic cough .
He had no increase in his congestive heart failure symptoms , no chest pain , and no hemoptysis or changed in arthritis .
The patient did report taking a po antibiotic ( Ciprofloxacin ) for right great toe infection ( question of cellulitis vs. paronychia ) .
HOSPITAL COURSE :
The patient was admitted and placed in isolation on neutropenic precautions .
He was transfused with 1/2 units of packed red blood cells and given Lasix periodically to prevent him from going into congestive heart failure has he had on his prior transfusion .
Because his need for multiple transfusionsm he was transfused with radiated Leuco four units .
The patient had a good bump in his hematocrit , more than expected from 22 to high 20 &apos;s range next day after 3 1/2 units , but later that evening had a drop in his hematocrit so was given 4 more 1/2 units at this point for a total of 4 units packed red blood cells .
He again did not bump his hematocrit sufficiently and remained in the high 20 &apos;s after a total of 4 units , so he was given 2 more total units in 1/2 units segments the following day .
His hematocrit subsequently bumped to greater than 30 and was discharged with hematocrit of 32 on 11-7-93 .
The patient remained asymptomatic from a CHF stand point and felt much better after the transfusions .
It is unclear why the patient did not bump his hematocrit more but he did not appear to be hemolyzing from laboratory data , that is his LDH was within normal limits .
In addition , multiple stools were guaiaced and were all guaiac negative .
The patient was discharged with follow-up with his Hematologist , Dr. Eci Area and Rheumatologist , Dr. Taange Peter , and Cardiologist , Dr. Peter .
