Admission Date :
2016-02-14
Discharge Date :
Date of Birth :
Service :
ADMISSION DIAGNOSIS :
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
The patient is a 63 year old gentleman who had initially presented with exertional chest pressure several weeks prior to this admission that would resolve with rest .
Stress echocardiogram demonstrated an ejection fraction of 40% , hypokinesis of distal anterior wall , akinesis of distal inferior wall and apex .
The patient had a cardiac catheterization which revealed three vessel disease and the patient now presents for elective coronary artery bypass grafting .
HOSPITAL COURSE :
The patient was initially admitted to the medical service for optimization prior to his coronary artery bypass graft .
The patient was given stress dose steroids on the day prior to his surgery .
He was closely followed from his admission through to his discharge by the renal service for his transplant issues .
On 2016-02-15 , the patient was taken to the operating room and had an off pump coronary artery bypass graft performed with the left internal mammary artery to the left anterior descending , saphenous vein graft to obtuse marginal and posterior descending artery .
For details of this operation , please see the previously dictated operative note .
Postoperatively , the patient was transferred to the CSRU for close monitoring .
On the evening of postoperative day number zero , the patient had decreased urine output and was placed on a Lasix drip for diuresis .
The patient tolerated this well .
The renal service continued to follow close management of his immunosuppression .
On postoperative day number one , the patient was extubated and awakened from sedation .
He did well on this and his Levophed drip was weaned to off as tolerated .
Over the course of his Intensive Care Unit stay , the patient received six units of packed red blood cells for a low hematocrit .
He otherwise had a fairly uncomplicated postoperative course .
On postoperative day number three , the patient was transferred to the floor .
On postoperative day number four , the patient was noted to have a low platelet level of 43,000 .
Heparin induced thrombocytopenia antibody panel was sent .
Other than this , the patient did very well .
Chest tubes were removed when output was low .
Pacing wires were removed .
Physical therapy saw the patient and cleared the patient for discharge .
Ultimately , the patient was discharged on postoperative day number six tolerating a regular diet , adequate pain control on p.o. pain medications , and ambulating well with clearance of physical therapy .
