ADMISSION DATE :
06-30-93
DISCHARGE DATE :
07-06-93
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
The patient is a 67 year old white male with a recent history of urinary frequency Q2-3H , stranguria , nocturia x 3-4 per night .
He was found on physical exam to have an asymmetric prostate with prominence on the left and a question of a nodule .
Repeat exam one month later showed a firm left-sided lobe .
Transrectal ultrasound showed a hypoechoic left-sided mass in the peripheral zone .
A biopsy showed moderately to poorly differentiated Grade III-IV adenocarcinoma on the left .
The right lobe was within normal limits .
This was done on 05/05/93 at FIH .
He also had a 3-4 year history of impotence .
HOSPITAL COURSE :
The patient was brought to the operating room on 06/30/93 after informed consent was obtained .
A radical retropubic prostatectomy with bilateral lymph node dissection was done .
He was afebrile postoperatively with vital signs stable .
His potassium was 3.7 and his hematocrit 33 .
His postoperative course was remarkable for a low grade temperature to 101.7 .
His blood cultures and chest X-ray were negative .
He had flatus on postoperative day # 3 .
His Jackson-Pratt drained about 35-40 cc per day and was discontinued on postoperative day # 3 .
His hematocrit on 07/03 was 28.1 .
On that day he was slightly diaphoretic with some tachycardia to 100 .
The remaining unit of autologous packed red blood cells was transfused .
A cardiology consult was obtained for this episode of diaphoresis with tachycardia , as well as for an EKG being read as having anterolateral changes .
He had no symptoms of chest pain or myocardial ischemia .
A repeat EKG showed no changes .
He subsequently did well , with a repeat hematocrit of 34.3 after the transfusion .
His creatinine was 1.2 on postoperative day # 5 .
On postoperative day # 6 his low grade temperature resolved .
His vital signs were stable .
He was discharged home on Percocet and Keflex .
He was discharged in good condition .
He will follow up with Dr. Iechalette Cancer in his office .
SIE ROOM , M.D.
