Admission Date :
2013-08-05
Discharge Date :
2013-08-15
Service :
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
In brief , the patient is a 64 - year-old male with a significant history for coronary artery disease , status post three myocardial infarctions and also status post five vessel coronary artery bypass graft in ' 89 and status post multiple percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasties who recently had a catheterization done in Mississippi and stent placed in 2013-03-24 .
The patient did well until approximately three to four weeks prior to presentation when he began to experience increased dyspnea on exertion .
One week prior to presentation , he had chest pain leading to a repeat catheterization at Springfield on 07-30 which showed narrowing of the stent and an ejection fraction of approximately 20% .
No intervention was done at that point .
On the evening prior to admission , the patient was awoken with chest pressure radiating to the neck anginal
equivalent which was relieved by sublingual nitroglycerin .
This episode happened three times that night and finally on the fourth re-awakening , the patient presented to the Emergency Department at Springfield and was transferred to the Faulkner Hospital for coronary revascularization .
HOSPITAL COURSE :
The patient was medically managed initially and then underwent on 2013-08-09 , coronary artery bypass grafting x2 and a mitral valve annuloplasty with placement of intra-aortic balloon pump .
He was transferred to the Intensive Care Unit in relatively stable condition .
On postoperative day #1 , his balloon pump was weaned and the patient was transferred at 2 units of packed red blood cells .
He also began to wean off the ventilator .
On postoperative day #1 in the evening , the patient was noted to go into atrial fibrillation , for which he was controlled and started on amiodarone , after which he converted again to normal sinus rhythm .
He was extubated during postoperative day #1 .
On postoperative day #2 , the patient was noted to be relatively stable .
His balloon pump had already been removed and on postoperative day #3 , he was transferred to the floor on Lopressor and amiodarone in normal sinus rhythm .
On the floor , the patient was noted to do extremely well .
Physical therapy was consulted and the patient was ambulating extremely well with minimal assistance .
On postoperative day #4 , he remained afebrile with stable vital signs on Lopressor at 25 mg po bid and an amiodarone dose .
His left chest tube was discontinued at this time and his right chest tube was removed the following day on
postoperative day #5 .
Currently , the patient is postoperative day #6 .
He remains afebrile with stable vital signs and the patient is ambulating to a level 5 with physical therapy and wishes to be discharged home today .
