Admission Date :
2013-03-27
Discharge Date :
2013-04-01
Service : NEUROSURGERY
Allergies :
History of Present Illness :
58 yo female s/p high speed MVC .
She lost contaol of her car , she hit the Barnes rails then the car stopped .
Another car was coming behind her did not see her car , hit again , the person checked the car , she was not inside .
+LOC , GCS:14 .
She ejected .
She brought by EMS to Nantucket Cottage Hospital for furher evaluation .
Brief Hospital Course :
The patient was admitted to Nantucket Cottage Hospital on 2013-03-27 following a motor vehicle crash as described previously .
Chest and pelvis X-rays were negative for fractures .
A CT of her head demonstrated intraparenchymal and extraaxial blood ( mostly subarachnoid ) in bilateral cerebral hemispheres , right greater than left , in a pattern indicating contrecoup injury .
A CT of her C-spine revealed a possible fracture of right C7 pedicle .
A CT of her chest revealed bliateral lung nodules and a right thyroid nodule .
A CT of her sinues revealed no fractures .
X-rays of her right lower extremity were negative for any acute injury .
A neurosurgery consult was obtained .
Our recommendations were to load her with Dilantin and then continue at 100 mg PO TID .
The orthopedics spine service saw her and put her in a C-collar .
She was admitted to the trauma ICU .
A repeat head CT 12 hours after the first was largely unchanged .
She was transferred to step down .
She was having some pain issues and morphine was making her " jittery ."
On HD 2 she was switched to Fioricet , which helped with her headaches .
A repeact head CT was unchanged .
An MRI of her C-spine was done to evaluate for ligamentous injury , but this was extremely limited examination due to patient motion and the signal in the spinal cord could not be adequately assessed for edema .
As per CMED CSRU spine , the patient was instructed to follow-up in 2 weeks for repeat X-rays .
On discharge she was awake , alert and orientated X3 with c/o mild headache .
She had full strength motor exam , no pronator drift and PERRLA with full EOM s.
She was ambulating without difficulties .
On 04-01 she was seen by physical therapy was thought to benefit from acute rehabilitation .
She had a head CT prior to discharge that showed resolution of the subarachnoid hemorrhage .
Follow-up in 1 month with neurosurgery for a repeat head CT was arranged .
She was discharged on fioricet and dilantin .
She was counseled to follow-up with her PCP F 6-12 months regading the right thyroid nodule and the bilateral small lung nodules seen on her chest CT .
