ADMISSION DATE :
03/24/97
DISCHARGE DATE :
03/28/97
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
The patient is a 31-year-old right-handed female with right-sided greater than left-sided weakness and difficulty walking for several days .
She was in her usual state of health until 3/20/97 when she experienced the fairly sudden onset of predominantly right-sided arm and leg weakness and ataxia .
She was standing and walking with her friend , who &quot; had to catch her from falling down &quot; as she toppled towards the right .
She evidently recovered from the episode after a number of minutes .
The following day , she remained in bed through essentially all of the day due to malaise with no specific deficits being noted .
In the subsequent two days , she had several small spells of &quot; imbalance &quot; , particularly towards the right , and other symptoms included diffuse and mainly frontal headaches and mild neck soreness .
There was no diplopia , visual loss , speech abnormality or sensory change in her history .
She was initially evaluated at an outside hospital emergency room , and then transferred to Well General Hospital .
HOSPITAL COURSE AND TREATMENT :
The patient was admitted for her gait disorder with other notable findings on examination including anisocoria , which , by the patient &apos;s report , had been noted several months earlier .
A magnetic resonance imaging and magnetic resonance angiogram study was obtained , which showed no clear evidence of arterial dissections or infarction or other pathologic processes .
She had been placed on heparin initially , but this was discontinued after the magnetic resonance imaging results were obtained .
Posterior transcranial Doppler studies showed normal studies of both vertebral arteries , and carotid non-invasive studies showed normal right and left carotid bifurcations .
On the second hospital day , her gait continued to be markedly unstable , although with no consistent pattern in terms of weakness or directionality of falling , and she continued to have no reproducible upper extremity or lower extremity ataxia or dysmetria .
She was seen by the Psychiatry Service .
She was not felt to be acutely suicidal or otherwise in need of acute psychiatric treatment .
The psychiatrist also noted the indifference the patient evinced regarding her own symptomatology .
The patient was evaluated in one of the neurology conferences for several hours , and during this time , showed significant improvement while receiving gait training as well as evaluation ; in particular , she became more stable with counter-balancing methods .
This trend of improvement continued , and she was discharged in stable condition .
She will follow up with her psychiatrist , Dr. Freiermchird ( Sone Memorial Hospital ) on a regular basis , and she can follow up with the Neurology Service on a p.r.n. basis if needed .
She will continue on her previous outpatient medical regimen .
NIREGE MEMORY , M.D.
TR :
bzo
DD :
03/29/97
TD :
03/31/97 12:36 P
cc :
NYRI A MEMORY , M.D.
ASHELLRIETTE NESSASU THREATSVOT , M.D.
EJEAN NADARC FREIERMCHIRD , M.D.
