Admission Date :
2012-09-26
Discharge Date :
2012-10-01
Service :
NEONATOLOGY
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
This is a 5235 - gram full-term male infant of a diabetic mother born by repeat cesarean section to a 29-year-old gravida 1 , para 2 , woman .
Prenatal screens benign .
Group B strep status negative .
Pregnancy complicated by insulin-dependent gestational diabetes .
Apgar scores were 8 at 1 minute and 9 at 5 minutes .
The infant admitted to the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit for a dextrose stick of 20 in the delivery room .
SUMMARY OF HOSPITAL COURSE BY ISSUES-SYSTEM :
RESPIRATORY :
The infant has remained on room air throughout his hospitalization with oxygen saturations of greater than 95 percent .
Respiratory rates have been 40 s to 60 s.
The infant has had two spontaneous desaturations which quickly self-resolved on day of life one .
No other issues .
No apnea or bradycardia .
CARDIOVASCULAR :
The infant has remained hemodynamically stable with heart rates in the 120 s to 140 s and mean blood pressures of 57 to 60 .
FLUIDS , ELECTROLYTES AND NUTRITION :
The infant was admitted to the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit for treatment of hypoglycemia .
The infant was started on enteral feedings of Enfamil 20 calories per ounce by mouth ad lib and maintained glucoses in the middle to high 40 s taking by mouth feedings every two to three hours by mouth ad lib .
On day of life one , the infant had a dextrose stick of 34 .
At that time , an intravenous of D-10-W was started at 80 cc / kilogram per day .
On day of life two , the infant began to wean off intravenous fluids , and this was completed by day of life four .
Calories were increased to Similac 24 calories per ounce .
Before discharge to the Newborn Nursery , the infant was taking Similac 22 calories per ounce by mouth ad lib and maintaining dextrose sticks in the 60 s.
Weight on discharge was 5200 grams .
GASTROINTESTINAL :
No issues .
HEMATOLOGY :
No issues .
NEUROLOGY :
Normal neurologic examination .
SCREENS :
A hearing screen was performed with automated auditory brain stem responses and the infant passed on both ears .
PSYCHOSOCIAL :
The parents are involved .
