Admission Date :
08/16/1998
Discharge Date :
08/18/1998
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
The patient is an 88 year-old woman undergoing treatment for a right lower extremity cellulitis who was transferred from Child for worsening cellulitis and new confusion .
The patient has a history of severe aortic stenosis and was recently admitted to the Retelk County Medical Center for a Nafcillin sensitive Staphylococcus aureus cellulitis of the right leg treated with a course of Nafcillin and Levofloxacin .
There was also a right leg fluid collection that was incised and drained on August 1 , 1998 .
The patient was sent to rehabilitation on Levofloxacin orally .
Although details were not available at the time of admission , apparently , she had done well until the 24 hours proceeding admission when the cellulitis was felt to be worsening .
She had also been noted to be confused and combative during that 24 hour period .
As her baseline mental status is completely alert and oriented , this caused concern amongst the staff of the rehabilitation center and the patient was transferred to the Retelk County Medical Center .
HOSPITAL COURSE :
1) Mental status changes :
On admission to the emergency room , the patient was somewhat argumentative and confused as well as uncooperative with procedures .
A neurologic work-up was undertaken which included a CT scan of the head which revealed no acute bleed and a lumbar puncture which revealed a glucose of 72 , protein 65 , white blood cell count 19 , red blood cell count 11,500 with no evidence of xanthrochromasia .
The Neurology Service evaluated the patient who felt that her agitation was most likely due to infection , her multiple medications , or her metabolic condition .
The patient &apos;s mental status slowly began to recover , however on the morning of the first day of admission , August 16 , 1998 , the patient was found after having fallen .
A neurological examination was performed which revealed no abnormality and imaging included a head scan which revealed no bleed and a cervical spine series which revealed degenerative joint disease but no obvious fracture .
The patient decided not to pursue further testing with a neck CT scan .
At the time of discharge , the patient &apos;s mental status is back to its baseline .
2) Right lower extremity cellulitis :
The patient was evaluated by the Surgical Service who felt that the wound was clean with some erythema but without evidence of true cellulitis .
The patient &apos;s antibiotics were discontinued with the thought that prolonged antibiotics only put her at more risk for infection .
3) Cardiac :
The patient has a history of critical aortic stenosis and mitral regurgitation .
Fortunately , these issues were not active during the present admission .
4) Status post fall :
The patient did fall while inhouse .
A head CT scan and cervical spine series were negative .
The patient appeared to have no deficits at the time of discharge .
5) Atrial fibrillation :
The patient &apos;s Coumadin was continued .
6) Abnormal liver function tests :
On admission , the patient was noted to have elevated bilirubins in the 3 range and mildly elevated alkaline phosphatase consistent with a cholestatic picture .
These liver function tests will be followed closely as an outpatient .
