ADMISSION DATE :
12/26/96
DISCHARGE DATE :
01/01/97
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
The patient is an 83-year-old female who presents for surgical evaluation for her hyperparathyroidism .
This is an 83-year-old female with a history of hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy , status post mitral valve replacement in 1988 , chronic atrial fibrillation , hypertension , who presents for parathyroidectomy .
In August of 1996 while the patient was at Retelk County Medical Center for replacement of her knees bilaterally , and on preoperative evaluation she was noted to have a high calcium and therefore the surgery was canceled .
Further testing revealed hyperparathyroidism as evidenced by an elevated PTH .
The patient reports no masses in her neck .
She has noticed some generalized hoarseness in her voice for the past 5-6 months .
In addition , she has some dysphagia , particularly has had some difficulties with swallowing .
She has been seen by Dr. Tokbelb , her primary care physician in Itgreenredan Hospital , and also Dr. Kotefyfechird , her cardiologist , and also an endocrinologist at Retelk County Medical Center .
HOSPITAL COURSE AND TREATMENT :
On the day of admission , the patient was brought to the operating room for parathyroidectomy .
The right superior parathyroid gland was found to be markedly enlarged and consistent with an adenoma .
Her right superior parathyroid gland was removed and the rest of her parathyroid glands were left in place .
Postoperatively , the patient did well and was able to cough and phonate completely with no changes from preoperative .
The plan was to start her on heparin and Coumadin and discontinue her heparin when her Coumadin levels became therapeutic as judged by the prothrombin time / INR .
However , on postoperative day number two , the patient in the afternoon noticed some tingling in her hands and also some tingling hear her perioral region .
She had a negative Chvostek &apos;s and negative Trousseau &apos;s sign .
She had no muscular weakness noted .
An ionized calcium was drawn which was low at 1.0 .
As a result , the patient was started on Os-Cal 250 mg PO q.i.d. On postoperative day number three , her ionized calcium was 1.06 and her Os-Cal was increased to 500 q.i.d.
However , her ionized calcium decreased to 0.97 and she was given one amp of calcium gluconate .
On postoperative day number five , the patient felt fine and had an INR of 1.9 with a prothrombin time of 16.6 .
Her calcium was 8.5 , albumin 3.6 , and phosphate 4.5 .
She had had no further episodes of tingling in her fingers after the initial episode which had prompted us originally to draw the ionized calcium .
