Admission Date :
2012-11-06
Discharge Date :
2012-11-11
Service :
CCU
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
The patient is a 47 - year-old male with a past medical history of coronary artery disease , status post 2-vessel percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty in 2005 , 3-vessel percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty in 2009 , hypertension , new onset type 2 diabetes , and hypercholesterolemia who presents with the sudden onset of substernal chest pain status post exercise .
The patient presented to Bournewood Hospital on the morning of admission with a chief complaint of substernal burning without radiation which developed while doing exercise .
Of note , this is the second time the patient has exercised in many months .
The pain became worse over the next few minutes to 07-12 and increased to 10-12 while he was in the ambulance .
His nitroglycerin patch did not help , and he only had slight relief with sublingual nitroglycerin times three .
In addition , he had slight shortness of breath but denies headache , change in vision , dizziness , nausea , vomiting , abdominal pain , change in bowel or urinary habits , or fevers , chills , and sweats .
Of note , he had a negative stress test in 2012-07-03 .
He was sent to Bournewood Hospital via ambulance .
In the Emergency Department he received aspirin , nitroglycerin drip , heparin drip , Dilaudid , and TNK with decreased in his pain but without resolution of symptoms .
Electrocardiogram at that time showed ST elevations and J point elevations in V2 through V4 .
The patient was transferred to Sturdy Memorial where he underwent catheterization .
Catheterization results showed 100% occlusion of the proximal left anterior descending artery and 50% stenosis of first diagonal .
Angio-Jet percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty and stenting was performed on proximal left anterior descending artery and the percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty was performed on first diagonal with good results .
An intra-aortic balloon pump was placed at this time as well .
HOSPITAL COURSE :
The Mass. Mental Health Center hospital course was unremarkable .
Dopamine was discontinued on day one .
The intra-aortic balloon pump was discontinued on day two .
The patient was continued on heparin throughout his hospital course and transitioned to Coumadin on hospital day four .
The patient was continued on Lipitor and aspirin , and Plavix was added and will be continued for 30 days post catheterization .
The patient was continued on Lopressor and captopril throughout his hospital course , and changed to
Zestril 10 mg q.d. and atenolol 25 mg q.d. at discharge .
The patient was discharged to the medical floor on hospital day three and discharged from the hospital once his INR was within the 2 to 2.5 range .
