Admission Date :
2015-09-16
Discharge Date :
2015-09-21
Service :
CARDIOTHOR
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
The patient is a 52 year old Czech speaking gentleman with a history of severe mitral regurgitation .
For the past several years , the patient has continued to have significant exercise intolerance which has limited his ability to work .
He reports severe dyspnea on exertion .
The patient had a recent admission earlier in the month and he was discharged on 2015-09-10 , after undergoing cardiac catheterization .
This was significant for demonstrating no flow-limited disease in the coronaries but several fistulae
from the left anterior descending to the PA .
Several of these were coil embolized during this admission .
He tolerated this well , was sent home , and now returns for his mitral valve repair .
HOSPITAL COURSE :
On the day of admission , the patient went to the Operating Room and underwent a minimally invasive
mitral valve repair .
He tolerated this procedure well .
The patient was brought to the cardiothoracic Intensive Care Unit in stable condition on minimal pressor support .
He was successfully weaned off this support .
The patient was fully weaned from ventilatory support secondary to a persistent acidemia .
This was treated with sodium bicarbonate and a Swan-Ganz was placed to provide close hemodynamic monitoring .
The patient was found to have stable hemodynamics with appropriate mixed venous saturations in the 70% range .
The patient was corrected to a normal pH of 7.41 by the first postoperative night and remained stable .
He was then weaned off of ventilatory support and was successfully extubated .
The patient did have a slight bit of confusion early in post-extubation course which cleared .
This was also compounded by a language barrier since the patient cannot speak English .
In addition , the patient 's early postoperative course had a tremendous urine output .
It was equally up to 700 cc. an hour and a renal consultation was obtained .
He underwent a head CT scan to rule out intracranial pathology leading to diabetes insipidus .
This was negative .
The patient 's serum and urine electrolytes indicated that this diuresis was appropriate .
The patient 's urine output has decreased and his BUN and creatinine remained normal .
The patient 's Foley was discontinued .
He had developed some hematuria which has resolved .
The patient has remained stable and is now ready for discharge to home with follow-up in approximately four weeks .
