Admission Date :
10/25/1997
Discharge Date :
11/03/1997
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
The patient is a 67-year-old woman with occasional abdominal pain in the right lower quadrant and left lower quadrant .
She has not complained of any fever , shaking , or chills .
No nausea or vomiting , no change in her bowel movements .
She has had attacks treated with antibiotics in the past notably in 12/96 and 08/97 .
She has had a diagnosis of diverticulitis flairs and baseline diverticulosis flairing in 09/96 .
Also , three years prior in 1993 , she had an attack of diverticulitis .
She has been worked up with barium enema in 09/97 which showed multiple diverticula throughout the colon , but mostly in the sigmoid .
At this time , there was diverticulosis with no acute diverticulitis .
There was also no obstruction .
The patient is also status post aortic valve replacement in 1996 , and presented for heparinization prior to her elective valve surgery .
HOSPITAL COURSE :
The patient was admitted and begun on cefotetan and Flagyl , as well as heparin .
Her INR dropped to 1.6 prior to surgery , and her PTT was in the mid 80s prior to surgery .
She was admitted and placed on a bowel prep two days before surgery and was taken to the Operating Room on hospital day # 3 , 10/28/97 .
At that time , she underwent sigmoid colectomy and ventral hernia repair . ( A full account of this operation can be found in the Operative Note ) .
She tolerated this procedure without complications initially and was taken to the Recovery Room in stable condition .
Postoperatively , she had her heparin restarted , and had a PTT rising to 142.8 and then down to 92 .
Her primary postoperative development was the passage of some blood clots and blood per rectum on postoperative day # 2 .
She continued to pass blood per rectum and was transfused with one unit of packed red blood cells .
Her preoperative hematocrit was 41 and her hematocrit dropped to 30.4 on postoperative day # 2 .
This was a drop from an immediate postoperative hematocrit of 35.4 .
Upon receiving the one unit of red blood cells , her hematocrit returned to 33 , and in the two days subsequent to the transfusion , returned to 34 .
Otherwise , her postoperative course was uneventful with gradual resolution of the passage of blood per rectum .
Her heparin was discontinued when it was noted that she was bleeding per rectum and her PTT drifted to a normal range of 35 by postoperative day # 3 .
On postoperative day # 1 , the patient was restarted on 2 mg of Coumadin .
However , due to the episode of bleeding on postoperative day # 2 , the Coumadin was held for two consecutive days , and then restarted on postoperative day # 4 .
At this time , she is given 3 mg and was gradually increased to her regular regimen of 4 mg alternating with 3 mg.
The patient &apos;s INR had dropped to 1.7 at the time of operation , and remained in this range initially , but began to rise to 2.0 with her Coumadin dosing .
At the time of discharge , it was 1.9 , for which she received 4 mg.
On the next day , it was 1.6 and she returned to a normal dosing of 4 mg followed by outpatient draws to determine the further Coumadin dosing .
This was postoperative day # 6 , at which time she is ready for discharge .
The rest of her hospital course was unremarkable , with perioperative ampicillin , gentamicin and Flagyl discontinued on postoperative day # 1 .
She had some initial nausea but had no emesis .
Her nasogastric tube was discontinued on postoperative day # 1 , and she tolerated a regular diet by postoperative day # 3 .
She had flatus and regular bowel movements by postoperative day # 5 .
She also complained of some slight dizziness upon getting up .
For this reason , her normal Lopressor and Norvasc were held .
It was felt that this was re-equalibration after being sedentary and mostly in bed following the operation .
She had some slight headaches which resolved with Tylenol , and the dizziness resolved as well .
She was ready for discharge on postoperative day # 6 .
Her wound remained benign and was healing nicely at the time of discharge .
