Admission Date :
2012-04-30
Discharge Date :
2012-05-14
Service :
O-CMED CCU
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
The patient is a 55 - year-old male with recently diagnosed abdominal carcinomatosis .
The patient presented with abdominal pain and bloating and was found to have a large omental mass .
Biopsy revealed adenocarcinoma .
Histochemical stains are consistent with hepatobiliary origin .
Endoscopies were negative except for an extrinsic mass present on the stomach .
The patient presents with increased abdominal pain and poor oral intake as well as generalized weakness .
On presentation , the patient denied chest pain , shortness of breath , and cough .
HOSPITAL COURSE :
The patient was admitted to the O-CMED
Service .
He was placed on a patient-controlled analgesia for pain control .
He was administered intravenous fluids and oral diet as tolerated .
On the night of 05-01 , the patient complained of increased vomiting .
He also complained of increased shortness of breath and " difficulty catching his breath ."
On room air , the patient 's oxygen saturation was 80% .
His saturation increased to 87% on a nonrebreather .
A chest x-ray disclosed a left pleural effusion .
The patient was bolused with intravenous heparin due to concern for pulmonary embolism .
The patient expressed a desire to be full code , so he was transferred to the Intensive Care Unit .
The patient became more comfortable being seated upright with nebulizer treatments .
An angiogram was done which disclosed possible subsegmental pulmonary emboli of the upper lobes as well as infiltrates consistent with aspiration pneumonia .
The patient was placed on Flagyl and Levaquin for treatment of pneumonia .
He was continued on heparin for treatment of the pulmonary emboli .
While in the Intensive Care Unit , the patient was noted to have increasing abdominal distention .
On 05-03 the patient underwent an abdominal ultrasound with paracentesis , and 5 liters of fluid were removed .
On 05-04 , the patient was transferred back to the O-CMED CSRU
Service .
Due to persistent gastric secretions , an nasogastric tube was placed for decompression .
The patient was noted to have a functional ileus .
Octreotide was initiated in an attempt to decrease the gastric secretions .
On 05-13 , the patient 's respiratory status declined further .
He was noted not have an increasing left-sided pleural effusion .
A thoracentesis was done with removal of 1.5 liters of fluid .
A paracentesis was repeated with removal of 2.5 liters of fluid .
On the night of 05-13 , the patient continued to decline .
The family decided to pursue comfort measures .
Morphine was administered to insure patient 's comfort .
The patient expired at 6 p.m. on 05-14 .
