Admission Date :
2015-10-28
Discharge Date :
2015-11-13
Service : CARDIOTHORACIC
Allergies :
History of Present Illness :
Ms. Bridge is a 74 y/o female admitted to outside hospital on 2015-10-21 with chest discomfort , vomiting and shortness of breath .
Initial EKG showed ST depressions , but cardiac enzymes were not elevated .
She eventually underwent a cardiac cath to assess coronary disease which revealed three vessel coronary artery disease .
She was then transferred to The Hospital for Orthopedics for surgical intervention .
Brief Hospital Course :
Ms. Bridge was admitted from OSH for coronary artery bypass surgery .
She underwent usual pre-operative testing along with carotid ultrasound .
CNIS revealed carotid stenosis and she ultimately underwent left carotid stenting by vascular surgery on 10-30 .
Please see report for details .
On 11-02 she was brought to the operating room where she underwent a coronary artery bypass graft x 2 .
Please see operative report for surgical details .
She tolerated the procedure well and was transferred to the CSRU for invasive monitoring in stable condition .
Later on op day sedation was weaned , she awoke neurologically intact and was extubated .
On post-op day one chest tubes were removed and beta blockers and diuretics were initiated .
She was gently diuresed towards her pre-op weight .
Also on this day she was transferred to the SDU .
Early on post-op day two Ms. Bridge had an episode of aphasia .
She underwent an immediate head CT and Neuro consult and was transferred back to the CSRU .
CT was negative and she returned to baseline neuro status without deficits by arrival to CSRU .
Neurology concluded episode was most concerning for TIA .
Epicardial pacing wires were removed on post-op day four .
After remaining stable in the CSRU for several days without change in neuro status she was transferred back to the SDU on post-op day four .
She was then started on Heparin with transition to Coumadin ( goal INR of 2-3 secondary to h/o bilateral DVT 's).
During entire post-op course she was followed by physical therapy for strength and mobility .
She continued to improve steadily over the next several days without any other post-op 
complications .
She was discharged on post-op day 11 .
