Admission Date :
2017-06-12
Discharge Date :
2017-06-14
Service :
MEDICINE
History of Present Illness :
70 y/o F w/ tracheobronchomalacia , COPD , PMR , recurrent pneumonias who was recently discharged from Hallmark Health System to Pocasset Mental Health Center
06-07 after tracheobronchoplasty / tracheostomy and pigtail catheter placement for pleural effusions .
Since discharge pt has continued at rehab on ps vent settings but pigtail catheter fell out today so pt was referred here for monitoring .
On ROS , she notes feeling poorly , nausea , and diarrhea since d/c .
She has pleuritic chest pain which she has had since she arrested during her admission here and had CPR .
Per husband she has no cardiac history , and had a stress test ( unclr how recent ) that was normal
Brief Hospital Course:
Pleural effusion : s/p pigtail cath drain .
Imaging indicated that the pleural effusions had resolved .
Thoracics agreed to no need for pigtail placement .
CHF :
Patient was seen by CHF ( echo results are detailed above ) .
They recommended continuing beta-blocker and titarting ace as tolerated .
Patient should be kept euvolemic once peripheral edema resolves ( may use lasix to decrease edema ).
She will need a repeat echo in 3-6 months ( since this echo showed a question of focal wall motion abnormality ).
Also , patient was started on amiodarone and digoxin was held secondary to high levels ( please restart when level less than 2 )
Diarrhea :
Stool c. diff neg x1 .
She will need two more specimens .
COPD : cont nebs .
PAF : started on amio , cont b-blocker , and patient was started on coumadin - levels ( inr ) should be monitored .
Nutrition :
Patient should be started on tube feeds at rehab
Rash :
Patient developed a diffuse erythematous rash , though to be an ID reaction to a recent fungal infection .
She has been satrted on benadryl and hydrocort for sx relief .
Please monitor this ( may need dermatology consult ).
Also a drug reaction is in the ddx but unlikely as rash started at rehab prior to receiving drugs here .
