ADMISSION DATE : 
3-26-93 
DISCHARGE DATE : 
4-3-93 
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS : 
The patient is a 73 year old female who was transferred for cardiac catheterization after ventricular fibrillation arrest in the setting of an acute inferior myocardial infarction and a urinary tract infection . 
The patient was admitted on 3-16-93 to Diy Hospital for an E. coli urinary tract infection . 
The patient was readmitted on 3-20-93 because of fever , chills and a sudden onset of ventricular fibrillation arrest , successfully cardioverted back to rapid atrial fibrillation and finally to sinus rhythm , where an electrocardiogram then showed ST elevation in inferior leads . 
Peak CPK was 2494 with 18% MB 's . 
She required intubation for mild to moderate congestive heart failure , treated with diuretics , intravenous nitroglycerin and heparin . 
She had post-infarction angina , was transferred here for angiography and possible percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty . 
HOSPITAL COURSE : 
On 3-27-93 , patient underwent cardiac catheterization , coronary and left ventricular angiography without complications . 
Review of these angiograms demonstrated a dominant right coronary artery with a focal 50% stenosis in the mid-portion . 
The left main coronary artery was clear . 
The left anterior descending had moderate plaques with a 50% proximal stenosis of the right anterior oblique caudal view . 
The proximal diagonal D1 had a 50% stenosis . 
The circumflex had a long 30% stenosis proximally and an 80% stenosis at the origin of the second major marginal artery . 
The left ventricular angiogram showed akinesis of the posterobasal walls , severe hypokinesis of the diaphragmatic wall and trace mitral regurgitation . 
The patient was maintained on heparin anticoagulation . 
An exercise tolerance test with Thallium was to be performed in order to assess myocardial viability in the infarct zone . 
The right coronary artery lesion was complex and there was severe stenosis in the obtuse marginal 1 . 
The patient had no further angina . 
On 4-2-93 , she underwent a Persantine Thallium study . 
This showed no diagnostic electrocardiogram changes for ischemia and no angina pectoris . 
The thallium images showed a large region of persistently reduced blood flow involving the apex and inferoposterior segments of the left ventricular wall . 
This was consistent with scar . 
There was no definite perfusion abnormality in the circumflex zone . 
In view of these findings , it was elected to discharge her on her present medical program . 
The patient is to return to the follow up care of Dr. Ko Kollciem at the Diy Hospital . 
CHPO E. JESCOBEA , M.D. 
TR : 
sq / bmot 
DD : 
06-13-93 
TD : 
06/15/93 
CC : 
Dr. Ko Kollciem , Retchard Healthcare to Dr. Wall 
