ADMISSION DATE :
4/28/93
DISCHARGE DATE :
5/15/93
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
The patient is a 74 year old female with metastatic papillary carcinoma of the thyroid who presented to the Fairm of Ijordcompmac Hospital on 4/28/93 with progressive weakness , weight loss and shortness of breath .
The patient was in a good state of health until January of 1993 when she developed a serious upper respiratory tract infection associated with weakness and fatigue .
She had also reported a weight loss of 15 pounds over the past two months .
Although her upper respiratory tract infection seemed to be resolving , her weakness persisted .
A work up begun by her internist , Dr. Brain , revealed a white blood cell count of 49,000 with 50% eosinophils .
She was admitted to Box Memorial Hospital Nursing Home for further evaluation .
Data collected there included a chest x-ray which was unremarkable .
The liver function tests showed an alkaline phosphatase of 303 , LDH 310 , SGOT 66 , albumin 2.5 .
A peripheral blood smear showed mature eosinophils in increased numbers .
Chromosomal studies were negative .
A bone scan showed increased uptake at the manubrium at the site of an old fracture , as well as in the right supraclavicular area .
A thyroid ultrasound showed an inferior thyroid mass .
This was followed by an abdominal CT which showed an enlarged spleen , a lytic lesion on the right iliac bone and a benign renal cyst .
Biopsy of the lytic lesion was consistent with metastases papillary carcinoma of the thyroid .
An upper gastrointestinal was unremarkable .
The small bowel follow through was within normal limits .
A thyroid scan revealed decreased function and displacement of the thyroid by a cold mass located inferiorly with calcifications on the right side .
A chest CT also revealed a small pulmonary nodule with a necrotic mass involving the right lung posteriorly .
The patient was subsequently referred to the Fairm of Ijordcompmac Hospital under the service of Dr. Brain .
She continued to have profound weakness , a decreased appetite and weight loss .
She also developed lower extremity edema as well as left upper extremity swelling associated with increased shortness of breath on exertion .
A needle biopsy of the right thyroid nodule showed papillary thyroid carcinoma .
The patient reports no history of radiation exposure , no family history of thyroid carcinoma , no recent travels or exposure to tuberculosis .
HOSPITAL COURSE :
The patient was admitted to Dr. Shatermivaet S Brain on 4/28/93 with a history of papillary carcinoma of the thyroid with bone involvement and possible lung involvement .
Work up was begun for the possible myeloproliferative / myelodysplastic disorder associated with the hyper-eosinophilic syndrome .
Accordingly , an Oncology consult was called on 4/29/93 and a bone marrow aspirate biopsy was performed .
This revealed maturation of leukocytes to all stages with markedly increased eosinophilic proliferation .
A lung biopsy was performed on 4/30/93 without definitive results .
During this time the patient &apos;s coagulation status had improved with Vitamin K therapy with PTs normalizing .
ANCA serum results were negative .
ANA results were also nonsuggestive .
The patient continued to suffer from edema of the left upper extremity and a Vascular Radiology consult revealed a thrombosis of the left subclavian vein extending into the axillary vein .
There was some thrombosis of the left internal jugular vein as well .
A head CT was performed and was completely negative for any metastatic process involving the brain .
Thus , a heparin sliding scale was begun .
Meanwhile , the patient &apos;s eosinophilia was treated with a trial of prednisone .
She also developed a mild urinary tract infection which responded to Bactrim , but which was subsequently stopped because of diarrhea .
The conclusions at this time of the thyroid cytologist , as well as the bone pathologist , were that the findings were diagnostic of papillary thyroid carcinoma with pulmonary metastases .
Dr. Trial was subsequently consulted on 5/5 for surgical intervention .
On 5/6/93 the patient underwent a right thyroidectomy with sacrifice of the right recurrent laryngeal nerve as well as the right sternothyroid muscle and lower parathyroid gland .
She underwent autotransplantation of the right upper parathyroid gland , as well as repair of a right posterior membranous tracheotomy .
She was received in the Respiratory Intensive Care Unit immediately postoperatively in stable condition .
Her rate was well controlled on Digoxin .
The patient was transferred to the floor on 5/7 .
On the ward she continued a gentle diuresis as well as Solu-Medrol therapy .
Calcium levels remained 7.2 to 7.5 postoperatively .
She continued to improve with a slight hoarseness in her voice that was expected .
She continued to exhibit asymptomatic atrial fibrillation .
Anticoagulation was begun on the third postoperative day with Coumadin .
She was effectively anticoagulated with a PT in the range between 15 and 17 over a control of 10 .
She also received a Radiation Therapy consult for local control of her invasive carcinoma .
She did well on the ward and was discharged on her ninth postoperative day .
