Admission Date :
2010-03-11
Discharge Date :
2010-03-28
HISTORY OF THE PRESENT ILLNESS :
The patient is a 63 - year-old man with a history of hypertension and prior history of atrial fibrillation secondary to hyperthyroidism who presented to an outside hospital with a history of left-sided chest pain at rest .
The patient awoke with chest pressure radiating to the right chest associated with diaphoresis .
The patient was found to have a blood pressure of 170/108 with atrial fibrillation and rapid ventricular response to a heart rate of 140s .
The patient was rate controlled and transferred to the Stillman Infirmary for emergent cardiac catheterization .
HOSPITAL COURSE :
The patient was transferred for cardiac catheterization .
Emergent cardiac catheterization revealed an ejection fraction of 45% , right dominant coronary artery system with occlusive single vessel disease of the LAD .
Multiple wires were used to attempt to cross the total occlusion , but were ultimately unsuccessful .
The patient was continued on a heparin drip for atrial fibrillation .
Cardiothoracic Surgery consultation was obtained and the patient was taken to the Operating Room on 2010-03-12 for coronary artery bypass grafting times two ; LIMA to the LAD , saphenous vein graft to the diagonal artery .
Subsequent to this , the patient was transferred to the CRSU for closer monitoring .
He was deemed to be too lethargic and sleepy to be extubated on postoperative day number zero .
The patient was extubated early on postoperative day number one without significant complication .
He remained in atrial fibrillation .
The EP Service was consulted regarding the patient 's atrial fibrillation .
This was his main issue in the postoperative course .
He was attempted on multiple different drugs including Procainamide , Diltiazem , Esmolol , Sotalol , Amiodarone .
The patient was kept therapeutically anticoagulated throughout this period .
The patient was also started on digoxin .
Ultimately , the patient was transferred to the floor and anticoagulation with Coumadin was begun .
The patient arrived on the floor with medications as follows :
Sotalol 180 mg b.i.d. , Diltiazem 90 mg q.i.d. , digoxin 0.125 mg q.d.
While the patient was awaiting therapeutic anticoagulation with Coumadin , he spontaneously converted into normal sinus rhythm .
The patient was found to have a resting heart rate of approximately 50 subsequent to this .
In consultation with the EP Service , Diltiazem was stopped .
After approximately 24 hours , the patient converted back into atrial fibrillation and Diltiazem was restarted at 60 mg q.i.d.
The patient then had one more episode where he was converted to normal sinus rhythm but this lasted only a few hours before reverting back to atrial fibrillation .
The patient was ultimately discharged on postoperative day number 16 , tolerating a regular diet , and adequate pain control on p.o. pain medications , having no anginal symptoms and with an INR of 2.0 .
The patient failed multiple attempts at cardioversion .
