ADMISSION DATE :
10-24-93
DISCHARGE DATE :
11-2-93
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
The patient is a 65 year old Portuguese male with a history of an anterior myocardial infarction i May 1993 and is status post a percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty of the LAD who presented on 10-24-93 with crushing substernal chest pain and shortness of breath .
He had no prior cardiac history until May 1993 when on 5-24 he had crushing chest pain which radiated to his left arm .
He was found at that time to have 3-4 mm ST segment elevations in V1 through V4 at Pre Health .
The patient was transferred to Fairm of Ijordcompmac Hospital and had 4-7 mm ST segment elevations across the precordium with Q&apos;s in V1 and V2 , 2 mm ST elevation in AVL , and 1-2 mm reciprocal ST depression in II , III , and F.
On physical examination at that time he had bright red blood per rectum and therefore lysis was deferred and he was taken directly to the cardiac catheterization lab .
The cardiac catheterization results at that time revealed a right atrial pressure of 7 , pulmonary artery pressure of 29/16 , RV 33/8 , pulmonary capillary wedge pressure of 16 .
He had a 95% proximal left anterior descending lesion which was PTCA &apos;d to a residual of 30% and an intra-aortic balloon pump was placed .
He also had some mild to moderate disease at the OM1 noted at that time .
The patient was transferred to the Cardiac Care Unit where he had a peak CPK of 5,042 and 26.7% MB&apos;s .
His intra-aortic balloon pump was weaned without problems .
He had hypotension with beta blockers and therefore they were not started .
On day six , an echocardiogram showed an ejection fraction of 44% with anterior akinesis and septal hypokinesis .
On day nine , he had a low level exercise tolerance test with Thallium which was positive for 2.5 mm horizontal depressions in II , III , and AVF , and 1.5 mm downsloping ST depressions in V5 and V6 , as well as some anteroseptal redistribution on Thallium .
Therefore , he went to repeat cardiac catheterization which revealed that the left anterior descending site was patent and revealed a distal PDA lesion and a circumflex lesion after the OM .
The patient was discharged to home and is supposed to follow up with Dr. Shuffburle of Gastroenterology for work up of his bright red blood per rectum and is supposed to follow up with Dr. Amesin of Cardiology and Dr. Shuffpasc of Dingclearf Alllirefaith Memorial Hospital .
However , he did not keep any of these appointments .
He went home and did not take any of his medications and smoked and drank heavily throughout the several months .
On the a.m. of 10-24-93 , the patient developed crushing substernal chest pain and shortness of breath .
He came to the Fairm of Ijordcompmac Hospital Emergency Ward where he was noted to be ashen and diaphoretic .
He was treated with oxygen , aspirin , five sublingual nitroglycerins , heparin , and was eventually made pain free with that regimen .
CARDIAC RISK FACTORS :
His cardiac risk factors included hypertension , diabetes mellitus , hypercholesterolemia , cigarette smoking , and a positive family history .
HOSPITAL COURSE :
The patient was admitted to the Step Down Unit for a rule out MI protocol .
He was treated with aspirin , heparin , and intravenous nitroglycerin .
No beta blockers was started because of his history of hypertension with beta blockers and because his blood pressure of only 110/70 .
The patient ruled in for myocardial infarction with a peak CPK of 219 and 20.9% MB fraction .
This was a non-Q wave myocardial infarction as there were no diagnostic electrocardiogram changes .
on 10-27-93 , the patient went to the cath lab which revealed a small nondominant right coronary artery without any lesions , a restenosis of the proximal left anterior descending lesion that had been PTCA &apos;d , a lesion in the first OM , and a moderately severe left circumflex lesion after the OM3 .
The left ventriculogram revealed an akinetic anterolateral and apical ventricle .
Given the results of this cardiac catheterization , which were not significantly changed from his previous cardiac catheterization prior to the PTCA , it was elected to attempt to medically manage the patient .
He was ambulated progressively on the floor .
A beta blocker was started with Metoprolol initially at 25 mg PO bid and eventually increased to 50 mg PO bid .
The patient ambulated extensively on the FIH 20 floor each day without any episodes of chest pain or shortness of breath .
On 11-2-93 , the patient underwent a low level treadmill exercise test with Thallium imaging .
This treadmill test was done on medications , including beta blockers , in hopes to assess an amount of ischemia on treatment .
The patient was able to exercise for approximately nine minutes on a modified Bruce protocol , however , he did not reach his predicted maximal heart rate while he was on the beta blockade .
There were no diagnostic electrocardiogram changes during the treadmill exercise test , although he did have 0.5 to 1 mm ST depression in II , III , and AVF .
The study was halted for shortness of breath and there was no chest pain .
Thallium images revealed a moderate sized region of ischemic but viable myocardium involving the anteroseptal and lateral segments of the left ventricle .
There was also some evidence of left ventricular dysfunction during the test .
These images were essentially unchanged compared with the previous Thallium images in May 1993 .
After extensive discussion between myself , Dr. Amesin , and Dr. Scgach , it was elected to discharge the patient to home with medical management .
The patient was extremely reluctant to undergo surgery , although he understands that this may become necessary in the future .
Dr. Amesin had a long discussion with the patient &apos;s daughters revolving primarily around issues of the patient &apos;s compliance .
Previously he had not taken any of his medicines and smoked heavily on the outside and not kept any of his appointments .
The importance of quitting smoking as well as continuing to follow his medical regimen was emphasized to the daughter and to the patient .
She will be actively involved in encouraging the patient to comply with this medical regimen and also to follow up with Dr. Amesin as well as Dr. Lfsquarc on the outside .
The patient remained guaiac negative throughout the entire hospitalization .
Despite being on heparin for a short time , his hematocrit remained very stable with only a small dip after the catheterization was done .
He will need to be followed up as an out patient for guaiac positive stools and possibly worked up for this in the future .
CAGHALA UINTEELE , M.D.
TR :
yf / bmot
DD :
11-3-93
TD :
11/04/93
CC :
Dr. Telshey Swatlleebtik Dr. Eri Lfsquarc
