ADMISSION DATE :
12-3-93
DISCHARGE DATE :
12-10-93
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
The patient is a 47 year old white male with a history of emphysema who presents for admission with a diagnosis of broncho-alveolar carcinoma and is scheduled for flexible bronchoscopy , mediastinoscopy and thoracotomy with questionable pneumonectomy by Dr. An on 12-4-93 .
The patient is a native of Nahuter with a 70+ pack year smoking history ( 2 1/2-3 pack per day x 35 years ) whose symptoms began last 12/92 when he had a persistent cough and fever .
In six months , he was hospitalized for pneumonia x four .
He has had worsening dyspnea and paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea , though denies orthopnea .
No hemoptysis , no fevers , chills , sweats , when pneumonia resolved .
The patient also noticed a loss of weight of approximately 25 pounds over a few months with increased fatigue and lower extremity weakness .
A &quot; spot &quot; in the left lower lobe on chest X-ray was noted in October of 1993 , after his pneumonia cleared .
A follow up chest computerized tomography scan led to a tissue biopsy via flexible bronchoscopy in 11/93 .
Tissue returned well differentiated adenocarcinoma .
The patient was told nothing could be done until he was referred to Dr. An .
His appetite has been good and he has only complained of occasional sharp pain under his rib cage , right greater than left .
ALLERGIES :
The patient is allergic to Percodan , which gives him itchiness .
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION :
Triamcinolone , one tablet PO b.i.d. , dosage unknown , Xanax one tablet PO t.i.d. , prn anxiety , dosage unknown , MS Contin prn .
HOSPITAL COURSE :
A quantitative V / Q scan was also done preoperatively and Pulmonary consult was obtained preoperatively .
Pulmonary recommended that he just be started on Albuterol and Atrovent metered dose inhalers , 2 puffs q6h , prior to surgery .
The patient underwent his procedure on 12-4-93 , without complications .
Findings included thickened pleura with multiple adhesions and an abscess near the margin major fissure .
He had a firm nodule in the left lower lobe .
The patient was transferred to the Respiratory Intensive Care Unit in stable condition and had an uneventful stay there .
He had oxygen saturations of 99% with an Fi02 of 40% and had no complaints .
He was transferred to the floor on postoperative day number one and tolerated his PO&apos;s well .
His left lower lobe micro results revealed alpha hemolytic Streptococcus on culture and he was then switched to penicillin and Gentamicin after being started on triples of Flagyl , Ampicillin , and Gentamicin .
He had low grade temperatures , though did not spike a high temperature during his hospital course .
His hospital course was otherwise uneventful and the patient was discharged in stable condition on postoperative day , afebrile .
The chest X-ray on the morning of discharge was unchanged from the previous day , with slight increase in left pleural fluid .
He had completed six days of penicillin and Gentamicin and was discharged on Ciprofloxacin and Flagyl for the next seven days .
He stayed at the local Comfort Inn before his return back to Aujer Cin .
