Admission Date :
2019-06-14
Discharge Date :
2019-06-19
Service :
MEDICINE
History of Present Illness :
Mr. Mcelveen is a 51 year-old male with metastatic RCC status post left radical nephrectomy in 2018-03-21 , status post Avastin and sorafenib , most recently on Sutent monotherapy since 2018-12-21 , with mild renal insufficiency , who presented from home on 2019-06-14 with shortness of breath and fever .
Of note , he was hospitalized at Dana-Farber Cancer Institute from 9/25-10/6 with chest pain , at which time he reportedly had cardiac enzymes , an echocardiogram and a pharmacological stress test performed .
It is unclear from history what these studies revealed .
He reports that he felt fatigued during the week prior to the current admission .
On the day of admission , he felt " congested " in his chest , and had a new fever .
He was taken to the Deanna by his wife .
Patrick reports a mild cough for 2 days PTA , non-productive .
He denies a history of aspiration events or choking with food intake .
He describes mild reflux symptoms at night .
Further ROS reveals mild SOB in the days preceding admission , but he tells me that he was surprised to find out about his low oxygen saturation because he did not feel that bad .
He denies chills , no chest pain , no LE swelling .
In the Deanna , Tmax 102.8 , BP 100 - 140/60 s, HR 80 s, RR 20 s, Sat 75% on RA in triage , up to 100% on NRB .
CXR with bibasilar consolidations .
He was given Levo 750 mg PO X1 , and Flagyl 500 mg PO X1 .
His BP decreased to 100 systolic despite hydration with 2L of NS .
He was subsquently admitted to the ICU for further care .
He was placed on Levo and Ceftriaxone .
A cosyntropin stimulation test revealed cortisol 32.1 --> 36.4 .
His oxygen requirement decreased , and his overall status improved quickly .
He is being transferred to the floor for ongoing care .
Brief Hospital Course :
Mr. Mcelveen 51 year-old male with metastatic RCC on Sutent since 2018-12-21 , admitted with fever , hypoxemia , and bibasilar pneumonia .
1) Bibasilar pneumonia : Patient was treated for community-acquired pneumonia .
He was initially placed on Ceftriaxone , Levaquin , and Flagyl in the ICU but then changed to 
Azithromycin & CTX at time of transfer to the oncology service .
He continued to have an oxygen requirement and CT scan suggested ground glass opacities , suggestive of an underlying infectious process .
ECHO was done and confirmed normal ejection fraction .
His respiratory status improved slowly , oxygen was weaned off , and he was discharged on course of Levaquin .
2) Metastatic RCC : Sutent was held on admission in light of acute infection .
He underwent a staging CT scan torso which suggested no significant increase in tumor burden .
Patient was also found to have abnormal TFTs on Sutent and was started on replacement therapy .
He will need follow-up bloodwork as an outpatient .
Recent CT scan showed destruction of L femoral neck .
He underwent an xray of the L femur which did not suggest an acute fracture .
No limitations were placed in regards to weightbearing status .
Patient was instructed to restart Sutent next Monday .
3) Renal insufficiency : Creatinine improved from 2.1 to 1.3 at time of discharge .
Likely related to underlying malignancy as well as prerenal component given improvement with gentle hydration .
