Admission Date :
2017-06-16
Discharge Date :
2017-07-27
Service :
MEDICINE
History of Present Illness :
Patient is a 58 year old male with a recent admission for abdominal pain s/p negative exploratory laparotomy for suspected intussuception now returns on day of discharge with fever and tachycardia .
Patient has a history for terrible vasculopathy s/p recent right BKA with dry gangrene of the distal stump .
Patient 's last admission was significant for a negative ex-lap .
Post-operatively , his course was complicated by respiratory distress necessitating an urgent return to the ICU and was intubated .
After multuple failed attempts at extubation , the patient was trached .
Patient then did well on a trach mask and was transferred to rehab on the day of admission but now returns with tachycardia to the 120 's , and fever to 102 degrees F .
Brief Hospital Course :
The patient was re-admitted to the surgical service and taken to the CMED .
A chest x-ray on admission showed effusions consistent with CHF along with overlying pnumonia .
Urine cultures were significant for Klebsiella UTI and sputum cultures were significant for MRSA .
He was placed on vancomycin , levofloxacin and fluconazole .
He underwent PICC line placement on 06-18 .
A trach collar was placed on 06-19 .
GI was consulted for colonoscopy .
Patient was transferred to the floor on 06-20 .
He was seen by respiratory therapy and suctioned continually throughout his hospital course .
His respiratory status improved .
He tolerated his trach collar , and tube feeds at goal .
The fluconazole was discontinued .
On 06-21 the patient was seen by physical therapy .
A nutrition consult was obtained on 06-22 .
He underwent a failed bedside swallow study .
Based on a chest x-ray that showed a small hydro-pneumothorax on the left lower lobe of the lung , a thoracic surgery consult was obtained , though no specific interventions were warranted at the time .
On 06-23 the patient 's tube feed were changed from Respalor to Deliver 2.0 to give increased calories .
On 06-25 , urine cultures grew out VRE , and a C diff was negative .
He experienced low grade fevers .
He was pan-cultured on 06-26 for continued fevers .
On 06-27 , his nutrition regimen was changed to Deliver 2.0 at 70 cc / hr with 15 g ProMod .
On 06-28 , the patient experienced PVC 's .
An EKG showed ST segment depression along the lateral pre-cordial leads .
Serial enzymes showed mild elevation of troponins .
A cardiology consult was obtained .
The cardiology service simply recommended increasing the beta-blockade and maximizing the patient 's electrolyte status .
On 06-29 , the patient was transferred to the medical service .
Pt 's vancomycin was stopped after 14 days of treatment .
HIV test was found to be negative .
MRI head was obtained to further w/u patient 's apparent cognitive decline .
MRI showed prominent sulci and enlarged ventricles abnormal for the patient 's age .
Due to concerns for dementia , neurology consult was obtained .
Neurology felt that the patient 's cognitive symptoms were consistent w/ metabolic encephalopathy due to his multiple medical problems .
They felt that his mental status would improve as his health improved .
Underlying dementia was possible but difficult to assess with an overlying delerium .
The patient continued to pull out his doboff tube .
Pt had EGD performed to evaluate his poor nutritional status .
He was found to have a large gastric ulcer and high dose PPI was started .
The gastric biopsy and the serology were both negative for H. pylori .
PEG placement was unsuccessful by GI due to the patient 's anantomy .
07-05 the patient had a J tube placed in interventional radiology for nutritional support .
He was re-started on tube feeds .
07-06 patient failed a repeat swallow evaluation due to discoordinated swallow .
07-07 the patient was taken for colonoscopy and found to have a normal colon to cecum .
07-12 the patient was found to be C diff positive and was started on 14 day course of Flagyl .
On 07-18 , as his mental status improved , he did well at the bed side swall evaluation .
On 07-19 , he underwent video swallow evaluation and was able to tolerate ground consistent food and thin liquids .
His meds should be crushed and mixed with puree thick liquid .
He has gained 30 lb since the tubefeed was initiated ( 70 lb to 100 lb ) during this admission .
He will still need to be on tubefeed to support his nutrition until he is cleared by a nutritionist .
In terms of his mental status , he continued to improve steadily over the last few weeks of his hospital stay .
He was more alert and engaged with activity .
He did much better with PT and OT at the end after his mental status improved .
As noted above , his mental status change was likely toxic-metabolic from acute infection .
He started to develop more pain around the right stump since 07-17 .
He was seen by the vascular surgery who felt that he is too medically sick and malnourished to have surgery at this time .
He will follow up with Dr. Javier as outpatient .
Initially , his pain was controlled with titrating up the Oxycontin .
However , it was titrated too quickly from 10 mg bid to 30 mg bid .
He then developed urinary retention requiring foley placement .
After he passed the video swallowing , he was tolerating ground consistent solids .
On 07-24 , he had an emesis x 1 , and had aspiration pneumonia ( + interstital markings on the left on CXR , fever , leukocytosis ) .
His Flagyl course was extended , and Vanc / Levo were added .
His sputum showed many GPC which later grew Staph aureus .
Given his recent MRSA pneumonia , he will be treated with 2 week course of Vanc / Levo / Flagyl .
He was seen by the pain service who recommended to discontinue Oxycontin , and start Neurontin , MSIR , and lidocaine patch in addition to the standing Tylenol .
On 07-25 , his J-tube was noted to be obstructed but was able to be flushed by IR on 07-26 .
Tubefeed was resumed without any difficulty since .
Since oxycontin was discontinued , the foley was removed on 07-27 and was able to void without any difficulty .
