ADMISSION DATE :
09/09/2003
DISCHARGE DATE :
09/12/2003
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
The patient is an 84 year old male , with a history of hypertension , who was discovered to have an asymptomatic 7 cm abdominal aortic aneurysm on CT scan obtained in the emergency room back in May .
At that time he had presented with abdominal pain , and was found to have acute cholecystectomy .
He underwent an uncomplicated laparoscopic cholecystectomy .
He presents at this time for endovascular repair of this abdominal aortic aneurysm .
HOSPITAL COURSE :
The patient was admitted to Vascular Surgery Service as a same day admission , and taken to the operating room for an uncomplicated endovascular repair of his abdominal aortic aneurysm , and Anurx modular bifurcated graft was placed , and both common femoral arteries were repaired in the usual fashion .
He had pulsatile pulse volume recordings , in both lower extremities , and both renal arteries were noted to be patent , as were both internal iliac arteries .
His angiogram in the operating room , revealed no evidence of an endo leak .
Postoperatively , his course was relatively uncomplicated .
He did have an episode of a prolonged sinus pause in the recovery room , which resulted in transient loss of consciousness .
He responded to a Neo-Synephrine bolus , and had no further complications from this standpoint .
Dr. Rosean Fletcher , of the Cardiology Department was consulted , and it was his opinion that the sinus pause was related to increased vagal tone postoperatively , perhaps secondary to the epidural , as well as the patient &apos;s Atenolol use .
His Atenolol was held , and he had no further pauses during his stay .
His postoperative CT scan showed no evidence of endo leak , or graft kinking .
He maintained good peripheral pulses and warm feet postoperatively .
However , he did develop significant ecchymosis in both groins , extending down into his scrotum .
There was no evidence of significant groin hematomas .
He tolerated a regular diet .
His pain was adequately controlled with oral medications .
Accordingly , the patient was discharged to home on postoperative day 2 .
He will be visited by LDAMC for blood pressure and incision checks .
He will follow up with Dr. Dye in the Clinic .
