Admission Date :
2013-02-12
Discharge Date :
2013-02-16
Service :
CARDIOTHORACIC
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
The patient was referred from an outside hospital with a chief complaint of increasing shortness of breath and tires easily with exertion .
Admitted to Bay State Medical Center Hospital in 2012-10-22 in congestive heart failure at that time .
Via echocardiogram , found to have aortic stenosis .
Referred to Memorial Hospital ( Worcester ) for cardiac catheterization to further evaluate her aortic stenosis .
Cardiac catheterization done on 01-07 showed an aortic valve area of .38 cm.sq. , with a mean gradient of 62 , and a peak gradient of 85 .
Moderate pulmonary hypertension , PA pressure 48/24 , 1+ mitral regurgitation , severe aortic stenosis with an LVEDP of 19 and an ejection fraction of 43% .
She was then referred to Cardiothoracic Surgery for aortic valve replacement .
HOSPITAL COURSE :
The patient was a direct admission to the operating room on 02-12 , at which time she underwent an
aortic valve replacement .
Please see the operative report for full details .
In summary , she had an aortic valve replacement with a #21 mosaic porcine valve .
She tolerated the operation well , and was transferred from the operating room to the Cardiothoracic Intensive Care Unit .
The patient did well in the immediate postoperative period , however , her blood pressure remained somewhat labile .
Therefore , she was continued on a Neo-Synephrine drip to maintain a systolic blood pressure greater than 110 .
In addition , she was slow to awaken after her anesthesia was reversed , and in several attempts to wean from the ventilator , she developed a respiratory acidosis .
She therefore remained on the ventilator throughout the day of postoperative day one .
On postoperative day two , the patient remained hemodynamically stable .
Her Neo-Synephrine drip was weaned to off .
She was again weaned from the ventilator , and successfully extubated .
Her chest tubes were discontinued and , at the end of the day , she was transferred from the Cardiothoracic Intensive Care Unit to the floor for continuing postoperative care and cardiac rehabilitation .
After being transferred to the floor , the patient did well .
Over the next several days , her activity level was increased with the assistance of Physical Therapy and the nursing staff .
She remained hemodynamically stable .
Her respiratory condition remained stable and , on postoperative day four , she was deemed stable and ready to be transferred to rehabilitation for continuing postoperative care and physical therapy .
