ADMISSION DATE :
11/17/2004
DISCHARGE DATE :
11/26/2004
OPERATIONS / PROCEDURES :
Dobutamine stress test , cardiac ultrasound , EGD , chest x-ray , PICC placement .
The patient is a 62-year-old female with a history of diabetes mellitus , hypertension , COPD , hypercholesterolemia , depression and CHF who was lying in bed on the night prior to admission when she developed left-sided chest pain located in the mid-breast region with some fluttering her chest .
The patient radiated down her left arm associated with some nausea , no shortness of breath , cough , vomiting , diarrhea .
She slept through the night , woke with persistent pain .
She went with her sister &apos;s husband to La Community Hospital where she was given sublingual nitroglycerin with complete relief of pain .
She refused ambulance to the Emergency Room and was driven to Well General Hospital Emergency Room by her sister .
She arrived pain free .
She was given Aspirin , Lopressor and Insulin for hyperglycemia .
EKG was unchanged compared to the prior EKG several months ago .
HOSPITAL COURSE :
The patient was admitted to Team Four for cardiac monitoring and ruling out for MI .
Hospital course by system :
1. Cardiovascular :
The patient ruled out for MI by cardiac markers .
The patient was set to go for a dobutamine stress test on 11/16/04 given her history of COPD , but the stress portion was canceled when she was down there due to fever and hypotension .
The next day , she underwent a cardiac echo ( transthoracic echocardiogram ) .
This echo showed LV ejection fraction of 50% with no wall motion abnormality .
However , the right ventricular was diffusely hypokinetic .
It was suboptimally imaged , so there was no RVSP given .
The patient also suffered a hypotensive episode while in the endoscopy suite for her EGD on 11/17/04 .
This responded to fluid bolus .
The patient was then transferred to Medicine Team D given her tenuous hemodynamic status .
The patient , several days later 11/23 , underwent another dobutamine stress test .
This stress test , although complicated by hypotension again , to the 60 &apos;s or 70 &apos;s was completed and there was some mild anterior septal thinning , but no evidence of ischemia and an EF from this test was 76% .
Clearly , the patient &apos;s hemodynamic vascular status was very sensitive to dobutamine .
2. Infectious Disease :
On hospital day #2 , the patient was noted to have increased dyspnea on exertion .
The next day she developed a fever and she was started on levofloxacin for a potential UTI .
She continued to have low-grade fevers and on the next day , 11/17/04 , her chest x-ray showed possible new right upper lobe infiltrates .
She was then started on ceftriaxone and azithromycin .
Her urine legionella antigen was negative .
On 11/22/04 , she was noted to have gram-positive cocci in her sputum .
She was started on vancomycin for this .
These bacteria turned out to be MRSA and she was continued on her vancomycin .
She had PICC line placed on the day prior to discharge for home vancomycin administration .
3. GI :
The patient had an episode of nausea on the morning of 11/16/04 associated with some cough , apparent emesis .
GI was consulted for an EGD , however , while she was in the Endoscopy Suite , as mentioned above , she had a hypotensive episode , which responded to some fluid boluses .
Finally , on the day prior to discharge , she was stabilized to the point that she could have her EGD .
The EGD did show three esophageal ulcers that were localized and apparent suggestion of pill esophagitis .
Her stomach and duodenum were normal and it was suggested that she change her Nexium doses to daily and that she also drink plenty of fluids and water with meals , sit upright when she would eat her meals to decrease the chance of pills eroding her esophagus .
4. Shortness of breath :
As mentioned above , the patient did develop MRSA pneumonia that was started to be treated with vancomycin and she did also develop an oxygen requirement the day prior to discharge .
At most , her oxygen requirement was 4-5 liters and on the day prior to discharge , she was satting well on two liters of nasal cannula .
This was thought to be due to her pneumonia ; however , with her right ventricular hypokinesis , it is also possible that she may have an element of pulmonary hypertension and may warrant further investigation as an outpatient , for example , with chest CT .
5. Derm :
Several days prior to discharge , the patient developed some erythematous rash under her left breast and left side that was thought to be due to yeast .
She was started on some Miconazole Cream .
The rash was always localized to her left side , sometimes extending down to her leg , but never on the right side .
The rash appeared to be resolving by the time of discharge .
