Admission Date :
2019-01-09
Discharge Date :
2019-01-15
Service :
MEDICINE
History of Present Illness :
45M w/no PMH presented to Chelseahospital after a syncopal episode on the morning of admission .
Pt was preparing lunch when suddenly felt lightheaded / faint and immediately fell to the kitchen floor face first .
He denies LOC .
Immediately there after he was very short of breath , felt lightheaded again and called 911 .
At Springfield , CT chest was positive for saddle PE .
VS were with stable BPs , tachy to 110-120 , sat 98% RA .
He received Lovenox 91 mg SC prior to transport and was transferred to Arbour Hospital for further care .
Mr. Anders states that 2 weeks prior to his presentation he hurt his left knee .
He was sitting on the floor legs crossed and stood up when he heard his knee CMED CCU .
Then again on Sunday , 3 days PTA , again from sitting to standing heard his knee CMED CCU .
He was essentially bed bound for 3 days prior to admission , unable to ambulate .
He started to notice inflammation of his L calf / leg worse 2 days prior to presentation .
In this 2 week interval he denied having CP / chest discomfort or difficulty breathing , no cough or hemoptysis .
No f/c/ sweats .
Pt denied any bleeding or clotting disorders and has never had a clot in the past .
Brief Hospital Course :
Mr. Anders was admitted for anticoagulation and hemodynamic monitoring in the setting of saddle pulmonary embolus and left knee injury .
#. PE :
Given no other risk factors or likely causes , the most likely etiology for his embolus is DVT from the left leg .
He has no known clotting disorder but did have trauma to leg prompting immobility and stasis .
He remained hemodynmically stable throughout his hospitalization and did not have an oxygen requirement upon discharge .
Given no evidence of hemodynamic instability , lysis was not required .
He was anticoagulated with heparin and coumadin .
He will need to follow up with hematology for an outpatient thrombophilia work-up ( not done as inpatient as results would not change acute management of PE ).
He will also require close follow up with his primary care provider for coumadin management .
Duration of his coumadin therapy to be determined by hematology , but likely to be at least 6 months in duration .
#. Syncope :
In setting of PE .
Remainder of his cardiac workup was negative .
He did have a small troponin leak , felt to be related to right heart strain in the setting of P-pulmonale related to clot burden .
His tronponin quickly trended down and he did not have EKG evidence of ischemia .
An ECHO did not reveal any wall motion abnormalities related to ischemia .
#. Hematocrit :
Dropped from 42.7 to 36 in setting of anticoagulation for saddle PE and IV fluids .
No active bleeding noted .
Pt asymptomatic .
#. L knee injury :
Given his history and physical exam , Mr. Anders presented with an injury most consistent with meniscal tear .
In order to facilitate therapy and to promote mobility , an MRI of the knee was done .
He was seen by physical therapy and will need to follow up with orthopaedics upon discharge for repeat evaluation .
#. CODE :
FULL CODE .
