ADMISSION DATE :
4/17/95
DISCHARGE DATE :
07/16/95
HISTORY AND REASON FOR ADMISSION :
Mr. Mass was a 56 year old white male who was transferred from Vassdiysey Medical Center for rule out pancreatic pseudocyst .
Mr. Mass had a past medical history which included Wegener &apos;s granulomatosis , history of an anterior myocardial infarction , and gallstone pancreatitis .
He was admitted to Vassdiysey Medical Center with severe recurrent pancreatitis , nausea , vomiting , and abdominal pain .
His amylase on admission there was 1,961 .
The patient had two recent admissions for pancreatitis in January 1994 , and August 1994 .
On his current admission , the patient was admitted to Free Medical Center .
His amylase decreased to 51 , and the increased back to 151 on hospital day #10 .
At that time , he spiked a temperature to 103 .
He also became increasingly confused .
A computerized tomography scan done on 4/16/95 showed a large &quot; pseudocyst &quot; .
He was transferred to Ph University Of Medical Center for further surgical evaluation .&apos;
HOSPITAL COURSE :
The patient was admitted , placed on intravenous fluids .
He was continued on his imipenem , intravenously .
The patient was started on total parenteral nutrition .
On 4/17/95 , GI Interventional Radiology performed drainage of the peripancreatic fluid collection .
Approximately one liter of brownish fluid was obtained and sent for culture .
The drainage catheter was left in a pseudocyst .
The patient was evaluated by Cardiology .
A Persantine Thallium study demonstrated a large infarct , involving the posteroseptal , anteroseptal areas .
Left ventricular aneurysm was also noted ; however , no ischemia was seen .
An echocardiogram was done .
The echocardiogram showed terrible left ventricular function , with left ventricular aneurysm .
The right ventricle appeared to be acceptable .
The percutaneous drainage catheter continued to have high output .
The fluid was sent for amylase , which came back 53,230 .
On 4/28/95 , the patient had new onset of abdominal pain .
His white count had bumped from 8.3 on admission to 18.5 , on 4/27 .
A computerized tomography scan of the abdomen was performed .
Approximately 100 cc.&apos;s of thick brownish material was aspirated through the indwelling catheter .
The computerized tomography scan showed the catheter tip in good position .
Because of the patient &apos;s deteriorating state , the patient was brought to the operating room on 4/28/95 .
An exploratory laparotomy was performed .
The splenic flexure had a purulent exudative process along the antimesenteric surface .
Thus , the splenic flexure and a portion of the descending colon were resected .
The patient underwent a left colectomy with end transverse colostomy , and oversewing of the descending colon .
Drainage of the pancreatic necrosis was also done .
The patient tolerated the procedure fairly well , and was transferred to the Intensive Care Unit .
In the Intensive Care Unit , the patient had a prolonged course .
The patient was then extubated on postoperative day #2 , but remained pressor-dependent .
He remained on imipenem , and Vancomycin was also started .
Thereafter , the patient had a long and complicated postoperative course .
He was eventually transferred to the floor , where he remained meta-stable .
He had repeated episodes of hypotension to 80-90 systolic/40-50 diastolic .
These resolved without incident .
He also had repeated temperature spikes .
After repeated work ups , it was felt that these were probably due to remaining infection in the peripancreatic area .
His drainage tube from the peripancreatic area was gradually advanced , and eventually discontinued .
Mr. Mass was placed on multiple courses of antibiotics .
Most recently , he was on a 28 day course of Vancomycin , ofloxacin , and Flagyl , for blood cultures that were positive for gram positive cocci and enteric and non-enteric gram negative rods .
This 28 day course was completed on 07/15/95 .
The patient was also treated initially with amphotericin-B and then with fluconazole for a computerized tomography guided aspirate of a small fluid collection around his pancreas , which grew Candida albicans .
The patient also had several episodes of fungal cystitis with Torulopsis glabrata , going from his urine .
He was treated with amphotericin-B bladder washes for this .
Mr. Mass was initially anticoagulated for his left ventricular aneurysm .
He remained stable from a cardiac fashion .
He did have problems with po intake .
He had repeated bouts of small-volume emesis that may have been secondary to reflux .
He was treated with a variety of anti-emetics , most recently Granisetron , with only mild success .
He remained total parenteral nutrition-dependent throughout his hospital course .
By the end of June , it became clear that Mr. Mass would require aggressive surgical intervention in order to eradicate his intra-abdominal bursts of intermittent sepsis ; however , long discussions with the patient and his wife , who was his health-care proxy , revealed that they felt that no further aggressive intervention be attempted .
The patient had been made a do not resuscitate do not intubate patient earlier in his hospital stay .
Multiple discussions were held between Dr. Mass , the rest of the surgical team , and the patient &apos;s wife , with this same result .
After discussion with the patient &apos;s primary doctor , Dr. Douet at Vassdiysey Medical Center , it was felt that the patient and his family would be best served if the patient were transferred to Vassdiysey Medical Center .
Of note , given the patient &apos;s do not resuscitate status and the risk for bleeding , the patient &apos;s Coumadin was stopped without incident several weeks before transfer .
