Admission Date :
2015-09-20
Discharge Date :
2015-09-30
Service :
NEUROLOGY
History of Present Illness :
Ms. Swanson is a 53 yo woman with PMH significant for seizure disorder , brain injury , and ? atypical multiple sclerosis who presents with right face twitch and right arm shaking .
History is obtained from her sister , William from Lawrence General Hospital , and from her primary neurologist , Dr. Brian .
She lives in an assisted living , and was noted yesterday to have generalized tonic-clonic activity beginning on the right side and lasting 90 minutes .
EMS gave her valium 5 mg pr at the facility and brought her to Barnstable County Hospital .
She persisted with right sided seizure activity there and was given valium 10 mg and ativan 1 mg , as well as loaded with dilantin 1000 mg .
She was transferred to the Providence Behavioral Health Hospital CMED .
Here she was given an additional valium 5 mg x 2 and ativan 1 mg x 3 for persistent twitching in her face and right hand .
Since the ativan , her facial twitching has apparently improved , but she continues to have hand twitches .
She also had an EEG , which showed left sided slowing on preliminary read .
Apparently she has a long history of seizure disorder , possibly from a history of traumatic brain injury ( though per Dr. Paula , 
records from that hospitalization indicate she may have only had a very mild injury ) and has been managed on dilantin and keppra .
Since she has seen Dr. Ollie , she has had at least two episodes of status epilepticus and one generalized seizure , as well as some less significant seizures which are characterized by left gaze preference and left sided tonic-clonic activity .
Her dilantin levels had been somewhat difficult to control .
He tried adding lamictal , but this caused a rash .
At the time of her last visit ( 2015-03-18 ) Dr. Bradley had discussed the addition of a third Castelluccio , possibly zonegran ( less likely topamax ), to the dilantin 200 mg bid and keppra 1500 mg bid .
Her sister had wanted to keep the current course because she felt she was doing well where she was living and did not want to upset that .
However , she had several dilantin levels drawn since her last visit , with 15.4 in 05 - 23.5 in Theresa , and 3.09 - 18 .
Her sister reports that the medication dose had been changed to 200 mg qam and 100 mg qpm in Theresa , and a review of her Union Hospital - North Shore Medical Center records indicates that this may have occurred in an urgent care appointment secondary to slurred speech and a recent fall and a non-trough level of 15.9 .
According to her sister , the patient has no short-term memory .
She has been living in an assisted living facility and frequently calls her even right after she has left without remembering her visit .
The patient walks with a walker at baseline and goes out for dinner and shopping with her sister .
Ms. Swanson also carries a diagnosis of " atypical MS ", which she brought with her to Dr. Billie .
According to Dr. Nicole , she has had stable deficits for many years without any flare-like episodes .
She had an MRI in 2014 that showed multiple plaque-like lesions , but these were entirely stable since 2010 .
She is not undergoing any treatment .
Reportedly she has been evaluated at Shriner's Hospital for Crippled Children , HealthSouth Braintree Rehab Hospital , and possibly St. Elizabeth's Medical Center of Boston .
She has not had an LP as far as Dr. Ginger knows .
Brief Hospital Course :
53 yo woman with h/o seizure disorder , demyelinating disease , and brain injury , presents with prolonged seizure , now unresponsive with persistent twitching of right arm and face .
This is most consistent with complex partial seizures with a focus in the left hemisphere , most likely the motor strip .
In the past , her seizures were on the left side , which implies that she now has a new focus .
It is possible that this is secondary to her underlying demyelinating disease , but per report this has not been very active .
Other possibilities include infection , including her UTI .
It is likely that these seizures began due to subtherapeutic dilantin levels on her new dose of 200 mg / 100 mg .
Her seizure management is difficult , given the higher doses were causing her to fall and slur her speech .
Discussed with Dr. Joaquin the addition of an alternate Castelluccio with the possibility of tapering down the dilantin in the future , and he agreed that she may benefit from zonegran .
Cannot use lamictal or depakote due to reactions .
Topamax is another possibility , but not ideal in a patient with preexisting cognitive deficits .
She was started on zonegran at 50 mg daily with plans to increase by 50 mg every other week to a goal dose of 200 mg / day ; she was on 100 mg daily at discharge and should have her dose increased on 10-12 and again on 10-26 .
She was continued on keppra and dilantin with trough checked frequently and adjustment as needed .
Ativan was used for breakthrough seizures ( facial twitching ).
MRI/MRA showed new temporal lesions , but it is unclear if these are the cause or effect of her seizures .
She will need to have a repeat MRI in several months for further evaluation .
LP was done and had no changes to suggest a different etiology ( ie negative cytology and negative immunophenotyping ).
Oligoclonal bands were not assessed as there was not enough CSF per the laboratory .
She will need repeated dilantin troughs with one time dose when trough is subtherapeutic .
Pending tests :
ANGIOTENSIN 1 CONVERTING ENZYME
EBV-PCR
HERPES SIMPLEX VIRUS PCR
Ernest VIRUS ( JCV ) DNA PCR
LYME , TOTAL EIA WITH REFLEX TO CSF RATIO
VARICELLA DNA ( PCR )
VDRL
2. atypical MS : discussed with her outpt neurologist ( Dr. Ford in Boston Medical Center ); no current role for MS medications .
MRI was performed and showed new lesions vs sz effects in the left temporal lobe .
She also had a new lesion on her last MRI in the centrum semiovale .
LP was done to evaluate for malignancy , and no malignant cells were seen .
Immunotyping was negative as well ( per verbal report ).
Unfortunately , oligoclonal bands could not be sent from the CSF ( lab sent CSF for other studies and there was not enough left over for OCB s).
This was relayed to the family ( Kirk ).
Given that she does have new lesions on MRI , if OCB s were sent this would have weighed in in her dx of MS , and it's possible she could benefit from MS therapy .
This was relayed to the family , and they will readdress this with Dr. Ford ( MS Hoyos ).
The family is confident in any decision Dr. Ford would make re : therapy for her MS .
3. fevers on admission : Pt w/ positive U/A , treated with bactrim x 3 days with defervescence .
4. depression : continue escitalopram ; assess need to change medication as an outpatient .
5. FEN : NGT was placed given her altered mental status , and she has been unable to pass a swallow evaluation , but has improved .
This should be repeated in several days as her mental status continues to clear .
Commun : Sister Andrew is HCP . ( 780 ) 970-0261
Dispo : PT/OT worked with patient during admission
